 And the thing is that you are coming to me to solve your question. This is not right. If you have a question regarding the law, ask the other person. If you have a question regarding the political power, don't ask him. Ask me. If you have questions of resurrection, ask me. You are welcome to come to my office. Just like an appointment with me. Usually Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays, I am free. But this Monday I am going to go to the doctor. But in general, I am free Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays. Tuesdays and Sundays I teach them seven. Maybe you can come to my office at seven. But let me know. If I am still alive, let me know. I can answer your questions. Okay, questions. Okay, so what is this logic is? Although we talked about it before, but now I find to go through it in details. This is the simple for inverter. Inverter means I got one, I get zero. When the input is zero, the output is one. We are working with the symbols. These are different symbols for inverter. The input is low, the output is high. When the input is high, the output is low. This is the signal. High, the output is low. This is the symbol for inverter. Input high, output low, low, output high. In Boolean expression, we will have a bar. Input e, then the output is a bar. We have seen what is the once component. And we can use eight inverters to implement the circuit for the once component. One, one, zero, one, zero, zero, zero, one. The output is zero, zero, one, zero, one, one, one, zero. I may ask you a question like this in the final exam, a simple question. So I will give you the input and I will ask you to select one of the four outputs. One of them will be this number and there will be another three wrong answers. So this kind of question is very easy. So don't amass with these easy questions. Make sure to get the full credit. So spend a few seconds, extra few seconds, to make sure that your answer is correct. Many times I ask students in the final exam these easy questions and sometimes I find students do mistakes. For example, if you want the answer zero, zero, zero, zero, one, one, one, zero, then the answer is wrong. When the answer is wrong, then this answer. If the question was the two's component, what is the two's component? You get the once component and then what you do? You add one, you add one. So if you add one, then this will become one and the rest are the same. Many times I ask questions, what is the two's component of this solution? And of course, like I will find 95% of the students' answer is correct, but few students will answer the question wrong for whatever reason. I don't know because this is a very simple, easy question. Okay? So make sure, and once, one really weird case, the student answers this question wrong and answers all the other questions, the difficult questions, correct, correct, correct, correct. One question wrong, which is the easiest question in the exam, and of course the student ends up with a buzz, but I want to meet with this student to see what was wrong, why he didn't answer the easy question and answer the harder questions. He reminds me when I was young, I was in the same state, and the gate, we talked about inverter, now the second gate is, and the gate. One, one, what is the output? One. One, zero, what is the output? Zero. Zero, one, what is the output? Zero. Zero, zero, what is the output? Zero. Zero. When I say zero or one, it is the same as saying low, low, what is the output? Low. High, low, what is the output? Low. Only when both the inputs are high, the output is, we went through this in the first week, first chapter. True stable. True stable will solve a lot of problems for us. This is a true stable, zero, zero, or zero multiplied by zero is zero. One multiplied by zero is zero. Zero multiplied by one is zero. One multiplied by one is one. And when I say multiplied by, it's correct, but I'm talking about Boolean algebra. In the Boolean algebra, one times one equal one. In the Boolean algebra, one plus one equal one. Because it is true or true. Equal one. High or high equals high. We'll come to this soon. If I have three inputs, it will be only one if all of them, one plus one, otherwise it is zero. Still, we still end the gate. This is end the gate. Timing diagram means one times one or one and one. What is the output? One. Zero and one. What is the output? Zero. Right? One and one. What is the output? One. One and zero. What is the output? Zero. Zero and zero. What is the output? Zero. Questions? So if I give you the final exam or middle exam, the input and four possible outputs. So you'll select this one. You'll select the one which is correct. There's only one correct and I will confuse you by giving some wrong answers. I will go zero, zero, one, zero, zero, zero. If I go zero here, it's not correct. If I go one, one, one, zero, zero, it's not correct. So in your case, in the past, I gave two inputs and I asked students to sketch the waveform for the output. But in your case, all questions will be marked with shorts. Okay? So you will select one answer out of five answers. Questions? Now I have a question. Suppose that I give you A and X. Can I ask you what is B? Yes? Right? But if I ask you what is B and you begin to sketch B, why the answer will give me a hard time? Yes? For T2, it can be zero instead of a one and it will still give you a zero. Thank you very much. You'll get to it. So quickly she said, oh, here, this, the answer, you see, what you want to call the answer. The answer is one. And there is another answer for B, zero. And still the output is zero. Then if I give you the question and if it was not part of the choice, this is zero. This one is correct. Then I will have problems marking the question because there will be more than one answer. But if I give you this input and I give you this output and you select one of the possible B, I will make sure that I will give you only one correctly to select one out of four. So again, is this a possible question in the midterm exam or a final exam? Yes? And the last one, I give this question, few students did mistake. Most of the students answered the question. Okay, because it is a second question. The same different questions, different waveforms. When one one, the output is one. Otherwise, zero. When zero, we get zero, zero, one, zero. Zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, the output is zero. Questions? Here, during this middle period, one, zero, then what is the output? Zero. One one, what is the output? One. So you can see the question is simple. Again, I'm telling you when I taught this course 100 years ago, it was easy. Of course, this material is the same. The basics is the same. We didn't change the basics. The mass is the same. Current is the same. Voltage is the same. Electrical circuit is the same. But when we go to other courses, all the materials will change. The micro-recess will change. A lot of things will change. If I have three inputs, it will get one when all of them are. Otherwise, it is zero. So this is with three inputs. The same rules, the same idea. I can give you three inputs and select one of the possible outputs. All right? This is important. Now, here we will begin to talk about Boolean expression. If input is A, B, what is the output? A, B. A, B is the output. A multiplied by B. Boolean expression. A, B, C is a Boolean expression. Table. Zero multiplied by zero is zero. Zero and zero is zero. Zero one is zero. One zero zero. One one is one. I can add this big box, one millisecond, with another boxes here. And the output will be looked like that. We are going to talk about counters and registers in the night. I can build useful circuits using just the end gate. If you turn the car on, then there is one here. And if you don't hold the seat belt, then one here. So one and one and one for 50 seconds will give one here. And then it will be beep beep beep beep beep. Why? Because the output is one. What I want to show you here is a simple circuit. We will use one here to make the alarm on when you start the car and you don't put the seat belt. But if you put the seat belt, then you will have zero here. Then this zero will end up in the bottom and you will use zero and no alarm. So at the end, I have here one or zero. I will have one means alarm. One means you didn't put the seat belt. You didn't put the seat belt and you started the car. You don't want to be here just beep forever. So one here means we will use one here for 30 seconds. After 30 seconds, the alarm will go off. You can of course design whatever circuit you want. As long as you want to have one here, then this is one, one, one. Then there is one here. The surface is one, one, zero, and then zero. One, zero, one, then there is zero here. You didn't start the car. Zero, one, one, there is zero here. Then there is no alarm because you didn't start the car. You can build useful circuits using very simple gates. I believe you will do this also in the moment. 20 years ago or more, the project was to design calculators. We changed it to design calculators. There are several projects with a lot of advisors that you can select from. Now I'm going to move to all gates. We talked about inverter. We talked about no gate. Now this is all gates. When I say Boolean expression, Boolean expression means I have something like X equals A, B plus say C. This is a Boolean expression. So you didn't see what I was doing in Wisconsin. So Boolean expression, if I have X equals one plus one, equals one. Why? Because this is one or one. Hard or high is high. Believe me, some students in the final exam, they wrote two. We don't have to do it by the way. We don't have to. One plus one, if I'm doing mathematical operations, then one plus one equals zero and I have a carry one. But when I'm doing Boolean algebra, this is one or one. This is true or true. True or true equals? True. One plus one equals one. We'll come to this soon. This is the all gate. This is the symbol that we are going to use. Low plus low equals low. Low or low equals low. High or low equals high. Low or high equals high. High or high equals high. In a table, this is a truth table. Zero plus zero equals zero. Zero, one, equals one. One, zero, that is one. One plus one, one. True or true equals true. So this is Boolean algebra. Can I have a wave? Yes? Timing diagram here. One, one. What is the output? Zero, one. What is the output? One. Zero, zero. What is the output? Zero. One, zero. What is the output? One. Again, can I give you X and A and ask for B? Yes. But I may end up with a few answers, which is fine. No problem. So if I have zero, zero, zero is zero. Otherwise, I will have one because one of them is one or both of them is one. So one, zero, one, zero. So this is the output for these two inputs. More examples. More examples with three inputs. So only the output will be zero if all of them equals zero. Result here, zero. Yes. Bring this period. Here one. Here zero. Zero, zero, zero. This output is zero. So these kind of questions you do it carefully and you get four marks in here. This is very easy questions. In terms of Boolean expression, X equals A plus B. X equals A plus B plus C. X equals A plus B plus C plus B. This is the Boolean expression. For the output. Table. Zero plus zero, zero. Zero plus one is one. One plus zero is one. One plus one is one. Again, this is Boolean algebra. It's not mathematical operation. It's Boolean algebra. Now we have a system here. And here also to show you that I can build a useful system using just one gate or gate. What is this system? I have another window and the door. And I want to make sure that they are all then closed. So the sensor are magnetic switches that produce a high output when one is open. So if this window is open, this is the high window. If this window is open, window number two, then I have a high window. If the door is open, I have a high window. But if this is closed, this is closed, this is closed, then I have zero, zero, zero, then no alarm. Zero, zero, zero means safe. Two windows are closed and the door is closed. So zero here, then no alarm. But if any one of them is open, or all of them is open, or two of them is open, then I have one here and there will be alarm. Telling me that you should close the window. Or the door. Because this doesn't tell you if the door is open or the window is open. It tells you there's a problem. One of them is open. Or closed. So this is telling you that with just one more gate I can design a very useful circuit. By the end of the course you will be able to do very useful designs using some integrated circuit, connect them together, then you can do something like piano to select certain frequencies and send it to the speaker. So you will be able to do some useful circuits after the end of the course. Now we move to a universal gate. I talked about and gate or gate, not gate, right? But this one is universal. It's called NAND gate. And why it has this special name? Because it's a universal gate. Because I can use it to build not gate, or AND gate, or all gates. So I can build any gate. So I can build the whole expression. So I can build the whole circuit using only NAND gates. So what is this NAND gate? NAND gate is N followed by inverter. Followed by inverter. Okay. So I have here NAND gate. This is X and this is Y. Before the inverter I have XY. After the circuit I have XY bar. Okay. So if I have here XY, XY, XY bar, 0, 0. What is XY? 0. What is XY bar? 1. 1, 0. What is the output? 0. What is XY bar? 1. What is the output? 0. What is the output? 1. 1, 1. What is the output? What is here? 0. I want you to see here that if I calculate Y bar, then it's for UR1, 0, 0. If I calculate X bar, then this is 1, 0, 1, 0. If I calculate X bar plus Y bar, then Y bar plus X bar. What is 1 plus 1? 1 plus 1 is? 1. 0 plus 1 equal? 1. 1 plus 0 equal? 0 plus 0 equal? 0. This is telling you that XY bar equal, X bar, I'm going to do first. This is very, very important, and you will see it in the final exam. In some of the questions. And this is called the Emmergans theorem. Emmergans theorem says, distributes about how to memorize it, and the change of application into BLOS. Many students, and so I told about it today, and I mentioned that students will do this mistake. Many students will think that X bar is wrong. No, no, it's you. You are very angry. Because it is not. You got this from some math that has nothing to do with this Boolean exhibition. Boolean exhibition, we do. Sometimes I ask you to prove that XY bar equal Y bar plus X bar. What is the proof? This is the proof. The easiest proof that comes to your mind quickly, true state. When I ask you to prove something, the first thing that comes to your mind, true state. Then you will be able to prove it quickly. Then you will be able to prove it without mistake. This is called the Emmergans theorem. I'm going to talk about it again. Questions first? So for the Boolean exhibition, say something that I have here. Apply Emmergans theorem. Then change the BLOS into multiplication. Distributes about. Then this is the answer. I want you to memorize the rule because we proved it. What about if I have X plus Y bar bar? Then this would be X bar dot. There is a dot here. Whether you write it or not, it doesn't matter. Y bar bar. Then it is X bar Y. Y bar bar is the original Y. When you invert the signal twice, you get the original signal. Questions? Now back to our original questions that I see. This is universal. If I connect, it is XY. This is XY. This is XY bar. Zero zero. The output is zero. Zero. Zero. One. One one one zero. So if I connect the both angles, what does this mean? This means X equals Y. X equals Y. Then I have this case. And I have this case. So if I put zero, what is the output? One. If I put one, what is the output? Zero. Then this is equivalent to two inverters. So in order to design an inverter, all I need to do is connect both angles. Right? So if I put X here, what is the output? X bar. If I put Y here, what is the output? Y bar. If I put Z here, what is the output? Z bar. If I put W here, what is the output? W bar. So I was able to design an inverter. And if I am able to design an inverter, can I use this inverter here? And what I have here is X, Y. Here X, Y bar. What is the output? X Y. X Y. X Y. What is this gate? And the gate. So I designed an end gate. I designed an end gate using two NAND gates. I designed a node gate. What is left? Four. I need more. So I know that this is NAND. It will give me X, Y bar. Then why not put NAND here and the NAND here as an inverter? So if I put here X, Y. What is here? X bar. What is here? Y bar. What is the fourth element? X bar, Y bar. Right? So X bar, Y bar, correct? What is output here? X bar, Y bar. Huh? Bar. What is Y bar, X bar, Y? The emergency unit, as we mentioned today and we wrote it, will distribute the bar, change the multiplication into plus. So this will be X plus Y, which is Y bar is X. Y bar is Y. Then I have four gates. The output is X plus Y. So I used three NAND gates to design the node. So in the last class I asked Bruce that NAND gate is a universal gate. Then you need to show that it can be used to design all. It can be used to design nodes. It can be used to design NAND. So it is universal. It is a universal gate. And now it is a universal gate. Questions? We talked about the two stables for the NAND base. So I will have zero before the node. I will have here zero, zero, zero, one. After the node, it will be one, one, one, zero. I can have timing diagram. One, one. Before is a bubble. This is called also bubble or node. I will have one. I inverted. I will have zero. And I will continue to know it well. I can give you a B. I will ask you for X. Or I can give you a X. I will ask you for B. Or I can give you a BX. And I will ask you if it is true or false. So if you use any input as the output, then the question will be true or false. So this is one more than inputs. You can actually try to figure out the signal before the bubble. And let me invert it. Then you will get this X. It is easy to use. And gate first. And I proved that man gave his equivalent to negative or. I didn't say no. No is not negative or. This is negative, then or. Later on, but next time, we will talk about node. This is node. Or, then second, then this is node. This is a node gate. And the node gate is also universal. And I will prove it next time. But here we are saying negative or. Here I am saying I have negative, then or. They are not the same. Here I have X bar. And then Y bar. So I have X bar over Y bar. X, Y, X, Y, X, Y bar equal X bar change dot into plus. This man gate equal negative or. This will make your solution easy in the future. When you notice that negative or is equivalent to man gate. But it is not node. It is not node. Node here I have X, Y. Then I have X plus Y bar. X plus Y bar is not X, Y, Y bar. What is X plus Y bar? In the American theory, change the plus into multiplication. This is equal to X bar. Multiply by Y bar. X bar Y bar is not X bar plus Y bar. It is not. Questions? Questions? In applications, we can have standard gates to be used to build musical circuits here. Suppose that this is hard. So the liquid is fine. The liquid is good. The liquid is good. So I'm going to use a signal here. One. Five volt. One, one. And then this will be zero. Then the lead will work. In order to make the lead work, this is five volt. I have to have a ground here. I have to have zero here. So the lead light, the lead is working. The transistor is working. But if I have zero here, it means that oh, there's a movement. Put more liquid in the tank. This is zero. This is one. Then I will have zero here. After the transistor, it is one. If I have B here, if I have five volt here, there will be no green light. Simply what I have here is one or zero. If I have a zero, then green. If I have a zero, then I have enough liquid in tank lead. I have enough liquid in tank lead. If I have B, I have high here and high here. But if I don't have enough liquid here, or I also have enough liquid here, whether both of them lower or one of them, then problem. Means zero means I have high signal here. Then this is plus B. This is logic one. The green light will not be on. What I'm saying here, we will then, very simple circuits, using just one end begin. Using just end begin. Using just four ends. This is very simple circuits. Questions? So I didn't talk about NOR gate yet. I'm going to stop at this slide. I did the same thing in the first group. I ask some students to come to see me after the lecture. If you have any questions, please come and ask me now after the lecture. For the rest of the students, thank you very much. Enjoy your time. Thank you.