 is like everyone, and it's not mine, so it's all awesome for me. You can do a lot of questions all the way. And remember, you don't have a tense on the quiz, you have a tense per question. So you can open it, you'll have a few questions, close it, come back with it. That is fine. If something goes wrong, let us know. We'll gladly collect the work out. We will figure something out. It's a little gnarly to get two attempts per question. So you should know how to open it up and come back with it. Go on. And I'll tell you today, if we get far enough, I think we will. We'll see how it goes. I'm going to give you a whole length of now. I'm going to give you a whole length of now. The question is about the work on the quiz. All right. At the end of the last class, we did Z-sports. They are easy to calculate from that table we built. Something's wrong with the recording, and they're not at the end of the recording, but I turned on another recording, so there is now like a one minute video. If you're reviewing the recording later, you can see on the Z-sports, you're calculating. They're hiding the question here. And now, what do we have to do for a factor three exposition variation? People don't use this a lot, but every now and then, someone cites it. Did you take that in mind? Did you take that in mind? Did you take that in mind? It often shows up that I see people finding out in the context of gambling, in the stock markets, like evaluating how it's the actual price, and times it's your typical in the variations instead of the standard deviations. And the idea is that you're looking at this where all these things have units. They all depend on whether you're talking about dollars or A's, or whatever else we're talking about. Maybe we could have a unit that's measured in variations. So that if I told you that something had a coefficient variation of n, you would have an idea that it was like, oh, that is risky. But if it had a coefficient variation of like 0.1, then it's not risky. And so, coefficient variation is a unit that has a risk. So I have an annotation for it. It's a text called C. OK. OK. So all you do is you take the standard deviation calculated and divide it by the average calculated. You multiply by 100 to get it as a first set. If you bother with numbers, you did that last class. And then maybe we'll do one theory for a sample. Stealing is wrong. What? Stealing is wrong. What is stealing? What the fuck? OK. Camera. We're really quick. So last class, we had an example where s was 0.1. Yeah. We had an example where s was 5.36. The average time was 7. So you take your s or sigma, number one, and you calculate it, and then you divide by the average. Multiply it by 100. And that gives you the score. Usually it's given as a percentage. So 5.36 divided by 9.7. And I get 0.5523. OK. And then I can say simple things like, CV well above 100% is considered variable or maybe volatile, risky. And a CV much lower than 100% is not. And I'm not giving you specific values because it depends on the context. And the text doesn't have anything about this. And you're not hesitant. It's kind of like a, generally, let CV be 4. OK. It usually takes a lot of work to get it. You've got to calculate the gap and do the standard deviation. But once you have those, it's more or less a variable. OK. Problem solved. This is one of the most fun chapters in the game story. I had fun. And we should probably, I like to do this. Remember I said at the beginning of the course, like, there's a reason we do this? Well, yes. That's how it works. There's a lot of different things in front of it. What do we do? And all of the definitions of the things I'll give you, I'll leave you with a question for a while. How likely, if there's a problem, how likely is it that the top card of a scuffled, standard 52 card deck? We've also got bridge decks. They are used for poker or any other card games. Other parts of the world, including Europe, have similar decks. But they sometimes they don't call them decks. They call them something else. And then other places have different decks, but we have a 52 card deck here. And it's ace. So the 52 card deck has four suits, a heart and clubs. It has 13 denominations, ace, which is a kind of a one, two to 10, jack and king. If you know the answer to this question, the next half an hour it's going to be a little dull. But we've got to go through it and we've got to define definitions and show you how to calculate it. When I was your age, I knew how to do this because I was probably better at math than you. One of my secrets is that I almost developed a gambling problem. I say almost because I got better and better at math and I realized that gambling is a wrong way. But I had a good way of... I hear some of you like to gamble. They show up at the cash register. People will not talk about that. This... What about things we don't do? Okay. Possibility... Possibility... The relative likelihood that an event will occur... We're going to have to define the probability. So you could substitute the word probability into this question and say what is the probability of that? What is the probability... So those are the things. That's how we understand the probability. What is the likelihood? What is the probability that something will happen? What is the probability that something will happen? Propagation... A is the event. Then P of A is the probability. With a requirement... That the probability is between zero and one inclusive. So you can come up with some events. Like what is the probability that you draw a business card? A business card... Not that you can card X, but one is probably zero. Or what is the probability that you draw an A card? It will... What is the probability that you draw an A card? It will be a little bit more than the probability. The probability is a little bit more than the probability. I don't think too much with that. No, no, I think it's a little bit more than that. I'm just going to say it's a little bit more than that. I'm supposed to define... Elemental things like an experiment and a test. So we should do that quickly. This is what I did. Go back a little bit. I'm going to go back a little bit. Okay. So an experiment is very general term. It's like something we do that predicts something. Remember I told you about the physics and the foundation of science? Well, you know what an experiment is. You set up some kind of process and then measure the outcome. In this case, an experiment would be something like... The options are... For it to be interesting, there's a few things that have to happen. There has to be more than one possible outcome. I'm not really talking about probability anymore. If you know exactly what's going to happen, probability is not equal. More than one possible outcome. What else is in my list here? A trial is one repetition of an experiment. There's one aspect. A trial is one repetition of an experiment. There's one aspect. Do that. It's fine. An experiment... You'll come back to trials and repetitions in the winter in BDS in 2075. When you learn about simulations. There is one aspect of a project. I can draw a card off the top of the deck. I can draw a card... I can shuffle the deck and I can do it again. Each time I shuffle the deck and draw a card off the deck is a trial. I shuffle... ...all the cards. For this, did you do all the cases? How many did you do? Probably just a fellow. Okay. Great. And then the event. The handle. What are you doing? Does it appear to have been there? You monkey-ass. Alright. You just need to spend a few minutes defining the words so that I can say them and then let everyone hopefully know what you're looking at. Okay. Fifteen. So you can draw the word over. Okay. And if you're talking about something that is like an indivisible event, like I can't draw anything simply, we call it elementary. Now some of these terms you're not going to hear as often as others. You don't hear people talking about elementary events very much. But that's what it's called when you are drawing like, when it's like the smallest event that is often. There are also aggregation events. Aggregation events would be something like drawing a. Okay. And four. So there are many cards that have aggregation problems in the deck. And so gist is known as aggregation. So many cards have aggregation problems. So many cards have or are aggregation problems. There's another important definition coming from more from theoretical probability. Talk about something called sample space. So the sample space is the set of all possible events. Probably say the set of all elementary. We often talk about the size of the sample space. Or the sets or the space itself. So let's go ahead and look at this. It is known as S. And it's usually written with set notation. Which hopefully you've run into before. For us it is all cards of bridge depth or depth. So let's go ahead and look at this. So the size of the sample space. You could write. I don't know if your text says this. I will use this. And it's either this. Or this. And it's either this. And it's either this. Or this. Okay. Are we okay so far with this blurry object? How do we know how it works? So let's go ahead and look at this. So let's go ahead and look at this. So interesting fact that I only learned about recently. So that probability and our understanding of chance. We really only in ten years ago. About 400 years ago. Before that we didn't have this language to talk about how language works. But people still played games of chance and things still happened randomly. So if you look at old, old books. People thought about chance as a handle. Like gods you can wreck. And you rolled an old dice. Whatever they came up with it was like god and a thing would come up that way. And people still gambled. They gambled assuming they were like under a million more gods. And that may still be the case. But now we have a language to describe probability. And the first real attempt at it was called classical probability. So we have to look at the rules and the complete understanding of the system. And the examples are, things that we can understand complete. Well, for the reason. Even like flipping a coin. We have done experiments and coins tend to not fall exactly 50-50. If they were like flipped by coin flipping machines. It's a very small bias to land the way they were already facing. Very small but it definitely is. You say that like pointless is 50-50. That is classical probability. But there is another type of probability that's really important. So the system is more complicated than the first dice. And that is called, I think they call it relative frequency in your text. I'm going to double-text. Relative frequency. Okay. Okay. And this is the type of probability that you rely on. In business and in science and many other things. Because the systems that you're studying are too complicated. And that's the most common view. So this is an example of where relative frequency kind of overrides classical frequencies. Okay. Okay. So if you want to achieve a tiny bit at coin flipping. The next time you do it, don't be the person that flips it. Oh, and if they catch it and then flip it again. You have to know something about the person flipping the coin. You have to know if they're going to catch it or catch it and flip it or drop it. And then you glance at what's based on it. You might have a tiny bit. Okay. So we will come back to relative frequency because we use it throughout business and science. We will do things like build frequency tables and then do more tests all the way from there. But for now, it's like you can know about it and we'll come back to it. You'll use classical probability for the rest of the class. We'll come back to it over to frequency. And then one more thing. What are they called? What are they called? Okay. Okay. So we do use subjective probability. It is useful when you don't have actual data to go on. And alarmingly, it is used by experts for some important decisions. Like should I take my company public for instance? Okay. So you don't know how well you're going to do. Major business decisions. Another interesting place of this effort is with sports. You might think that your favorite sports team has like a 60% chance of winning tonight because they won 60% of their games this week. But I'm not convinced that's true. I can't say like either are in a way to win or are not in a way to win. And we have no good way to describe that probability. I can kind of describe relative probability, but there's all the other factors that play. Most of sports fall under this. We try to apply relative frequency probability to sports gambling, but we're probably making some trouble. We should experience. All right. We're getting close to the middle of class. You know what we should do? Before we move on to kind of rules probability, we should talk a bit about how gambling cases get kind of complicated. Okay. All right. So sometimes it gets more complicated. For example, maybe we said try one card out of all the deck. We want to draw two cards. Each card is its own kind of deck. And the sample space of the experiment, which is that here, is all possible cards that we could draw in the board. Okay. So we'll have a break in a second. We'll start with a slightly tricky question for you to think about while we're on break. First I'm going to start writing out the sample space. So you could draw the eighth of spades and the eighth of hearts. You could draw the eighth of spades and then the eighth of diamonds. You could draw the eighth of spades and then the eighth of clubs. And then the eighth of spades, and that's considered different. And so on. This goes on for a very, very long time. Okay. I'm sure this will be fun. I'm going to call on the final question. Let's figure out the sample space. Okay. So we have 52 ways to draw a first card. So that first card can be the end of 52 cards. Then now the deck is down 51 cards. And 51 possible cards to draw. The order matters. I said so somewhere. The order matters, which is why I put that you could draw them in this order and then in that order. And those are different outcomes. And so the answer is 15, 52, and 51. I can't get very close to, but don't feel like I'm going to go out. I don't know how to draw it. I'm not the one on that. 265. So there are 2652 different ways to draw a two-card. Okay. Okay. You're on my running space now. I'm just going to show you where else to get. There's an announcement here, one might think about the second tier support center. It is upstairs, LA 4092, right-of-the-way grab room on the floor. Up there. In-person hours, 4 to 7, Monday to Thursday. And in-person hours, 5 to 6, midterm and 1. Okay. Okay. So there's a math bug for you people. What they can be doing is practicing this course. So here's the text. Some people would benefit from reading the text, but I'm not sure that's a great use of all of your time. Instead, if you see something in class that you're like, oh, can I clarify? You have a couple options. One, you can practice from a few slides. I believe her slides are based on one of the professors who helped write the text. So the slides are just pretty useful. And you can also read any prior to the text in the course content here that you want to cover. So the first thing you want to do is practice problems because the whole class is really on calculation with rapid problems. We'll do practice problems in a couple questions. One, in the syllabus in general, there are some subjective problems. And in this list of subjective problems, you'll see a whole bunch of textbook problems from various groups. Where do you find them? Well, you get the text. And they are in one of two places. So if you want to text, let's say, go into chapter one. Either you can click through the arrow and get to different sections, but there's also video clear in table contents. And so at the end of those chapters, there are supplementary problems, which is where a lot of the problems are hiding. But in some chapters, when we go to the end of chapter supplementary problems, we start at problem one. In that case, I think chapter four is good. So looking to the end of chapter problems with chapter four, it starts at problem 35. So where are all the other practice problems? Well, they're hiding at the end of each section. So like after addition line, we're going to learn about today, some of the practice problems are here. Here's problem eight, nine, and so on. Some of these have answers written in text. Some of them have answers that are good problems. Okay, questions about practice problems and where they are hiding. Those are great problems that usually just have numerical or human-specific answer answers. The one downside of these problems is that they are a little different from what you'll see on the exam, because the exam has to be in multiple choice. So quizzes, we get to from here. There's quiz one. It's all multiple choice. We talked about that. So is, I am very fond of these quizzes. So here's the question. How many extra review and practice questions? They are also all multiple choice. They want to dislike X and Y. So at the bottom, we'll find more problems. And you click through all here. We have to get a bit of data, a math professor, to show us how many students have tried these questions, who's getting them wrong, conceivably who is struggling. So when you're writing exam questions, you can save some of these. But when you actually want to write a review for the exam, you can also do some of these for a week. So there's a whole bunch of different ways that you can practice. There's practice problems, there's problems with X, there's quizzes. Okay, that is the test. I'll put the name on top of this test. Okay. Okay. We need a couple more definitions before we move on to our calculations today. And for compliments, note the spelling. It has an E, not an I. So the compliment is essentially its opposite. Compliments are denoted A prime. So you can say the probability of A prime is E at 1 minus A prime. So, how do we do this? So we're going to be drawing space. So we're going to be using the very easy to assemble like that. We'll use that. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So the definition of two events is those two events combined. We write it like this a little technically. The event that contains all of the columns in the event gave me. We write it like this. So we're going to be using the very easy to assemble like that. Okay. So that's A. And that's B. So A is the middle. That's A. A is drawing a case. B is drawing space. Then remember that question I asked at the beginning of class. So A is drawing space. Then A union B is drawing a case for. So that's probably introduced the concept of Vanna diagrams for problem solving. So if this box represents the sample shape. And event A is some area in the class. Okay. Then the complement of A is everything else. We call it A prime. That is how you diagram a complement. A is one part of the sample space and A prime is everything else. I guess with all the hatches clear I thought. So we're going to go back. Maybe I'll go from there. So think about line. So that's A. Then the sample space. You can draw an A. Which is here. So that's A. Which shall make bigger circles. And they overlap. So the union of B is everything. That is covered by. So that's A. So that's A. So that's A. The other important and simple concept is these combining probabilities. So let's go back. So this is the best example of the spokes move. It is in the diagram. It is that little slot right in the middle. We write in. I'm not 100% sure why they just put the U upside down. Anything would confuse them. Maybe it could get on or something. So that's A. It's an upside down U. And then the diagram. Let's use all the main colors here. And then we have to set up the same way. That is A. This is A. And intersection of the two. Is what the diagram is set. And the difference between intersection and union is A4 versus M. This is an A10. So that's A. Kids. So that's A. So that's A. Okay. So that's A. Any questions about the difference between these two? Sometime soon, maybe at the end of the class, or likely next class, we will learn how to make calculations between these two. There are formulas for that. Until then. We have a couple more definitions to talk about. Maybe you have heard of mutually exclusive equations. Using our language today. So, the mutually exclusive event is an event or two events that do not intersect. So, these two are not hard to think of. Just any of the things that can't go past it, and the cards that can't go. So, one card can be both. Those two events are mutually exclusive. So, the card can go and pay and also be hard. They are mutually exclusive. Another way to think about this is if one happens, the other can't. And I mean like this card. So, if you draw a card and it turns out to be a same, you can't magically spend your heart on it. That's a mutually exclusive event. So, again, relaxing before we get to calculations. So, let's go ahead and start. So, the occurrence of one event does not affect the probability of others. So, the results across five events are independent. So, the probability of others is not the same. So, the probability of others is not the same. So, in the case of the first event, I can't say anything about whether others draw. In classical probability, the answer is no. You want to make sure it's properly. It will not change. I draw the easy space. And then I draw a second. So then I shuffle again and start a new trial. And I draw a new card. Drawing any card now is independent of the first test. Real life example that you are at risk of coming to. I know that after I had told him this in previous lessons, he didn't come up to me and say, no, go ahead. Come on, really. Roulette. Every outcome, every time you spin the roulette wheel, the ball ends on a number. Red, black, blue, red, whatever number it ends on. That is one trial. And then every time someone spins the roulette wheel, it's a different trial and so on. And then the mystery is born. Five, six, seven, black, and rose. But each trial is independent. And then the roulette wheel is an independent trial. In five or six blocks here in a row, some people are like, well, black is on a pair. And then on a black, some people think that, oh, black has had its due and now it's time for the world to come back to balance. And spin a red. Neither is true. Either the three are likely to continue or a red more likely to appear. The leaf otherwise had a formal name. It is known as the gambler's bat. And I know that much money has been lost. The opposite of independence is dependent. If you're at the casino with your friends and someone's playing roulette and then they say something on the line, I am due, you tell them to separate. I am going to give you a minute to admit it. The events are events that do the same thing. And unlike drawing one card and then shuffling and then drawing a new first card, if you draw one card and then draw a second card, the event of drawing the first card affects the effect of drawing the second card. If the first card is ace, the second card is now less likely to be an ace because there are less aces in the deck. That is what a dependent event is, where the actual event can be shown to affect some other event. There is a mistaken belief that roulette will work this way, that if the full pick-lacks are rolled, that it is more likely to be a common red or black. Neither is true. The card is true because what we say is that it affects the composition of the event. The interesting thing is that this is a principle of artifact. That you actually can, in the right conditions, have slowly, with a lot of risk, but slowly make money playing black. Thank you.