 But because I do not want to be any more delayed, maybe what I'll do is I will record myself, like I said on Monday, I'll put it on my learning stage, you watch that before next class, and then I will do a little bit because I'm not supposed to be recording myself. Okay? Between you and me. Okay? And then hopefully I will be like on stage, like working with other instructors on the trackers. So I don't want to do it at the very end. I could just keep doing it, but then at the very end you will get too overwhelmed and you'll be like, oh my god, there's so much I have to now watch a video and I have to study for the test and I don't want that. Okay? Alright. So we were talking about personality and we talked about the strength and weakness. So I want to bring to your attention this particular study. Okay? So this is just to show you that there is research to back up on our personality. Okay? So this was done by Barrick and Mell in 1993. And so basically what they did was they conducted a study where they examined the role of autonomy in a relationship. And that relationship was basically conscientiousness and job performance. Okay? So you'll learn about conscientiousness in a few minutes, but what's enough? Autonomy. So autonomy basically is the extent to which a job provides you with freedom, with independence, with discretion in terms of things like scheduling work, determining the procedures to be used, and so forth. Okay? So autonomy is basically having the freedom to do what we want to do. Okay? So as you can imagine, high autonomy is consistent with the notion of which one of the two? Is it a weak or a strong situation? This is how we have had to find a weak and a strong. So where do you think high autonomy, which is having more freedom, will be more prominent? Prominent. In a weak situation. In a weak situation. Why is that? Because there's less rules, less pressure, so you have more freedom. Exactly. Good. What is your name again? Mona. Mona, okay. So just remind me of your name again. Okay? All right. So low autonomy, more or consistent with weak situation, and then low autonomy is more consistent with the notion of a strong situation. Right? Okay. So conscientiousness is basically, so I'll talk about this in a few minutes, but conscientiousness has to do with how hardworking you are or how dependable you are. Right? So these are some of the adjectives I go with conscientiousness. So what do you think would happen? First of all, the more, the higher the conscientiousness, the less or more likely you are to perform well. What do you think? More. More, right? Yes. So there is a positive correlation or relationship between conscientiousness and performance. Name again. Mustafa. Mustafa. Okay. All right. So what is it that they found? Okay. So they brought in a new variable which was autonomy, and what is it that they found? So they found that in low autonomy situations, okay, there was essentially no relationship between conscientiousness and performance. Okay. That's what you see on there. So in such situations, basically what that means is that the rules, the rules, the procedures, it was quite defined, right? And so, what is that? What is that? That alacrino, right? Oh. I don't know what that is. I was just saying, oh no, what did I do? Oh, you need to tell me because I'm mute. Okay. So they're well defined, and so then there is little room for individual to really express his or her personality. But in high autonomy, which is what you see in the solid, what do they find? They actually find that strong relationship between conscientiousness and job performance, right? So the situation is weak, right? Roles are less loosely defined. There are few rules, right? And so basically, you see performance go up. Okay. So bottom line, I will never ask you this on a test, first of all, but I want to demonstrate to you using a research study that personality really does have a strong effect in weak situations. Okay? Does that make sense? Yes? Okay. All right. Good. All right. So how do we go about testing personality? Well, there are two different ways in which you can do this, okay? There is self-report, and then there is observation. Okay. So self-report basically is sort of like what I had you do in a clinic. Remember on Monday I said, would you mind completing this scale, right? So you respond to a question or a couple of questions using a Likert scale, which is the scale that you saw, that self-report, right? Observational is where someone describes you. Okay. So basically, you would see this in a job situation. Okay. In a job interview, what is it that they're doing? Someone is asking you questions, right? So they're noticing your behavior. They're rating your responses. They're trying to figure out what kind of a person you are, right? They're trying to ask themselves, do we actually want this person based on the personality that they're demonstrating, right? Is this person a good fit for this particular job based on what we see? Okay. So those are the two different ways in which you can assess personality. But as you can just imagine, both of them have their pros and cons, right? So for example, self-report, what might we see? We can see people pick. Oh yeah, sorry, go on. Sure, I'll ask the question. What would you? Yes? Bias. Bias. With what sense? I think you want to create a better life. Yeah, right? So it's not, that's called social desirability. Okay? So you're kind of presenting yourself, or impression management. You're trying to present yourself in a positive light, in a way that the other person might want to see. I think it was Rayman. Yeah. Rayman. Rayman. Albert. Albert, Rayman, Aaron. Yep. Great. Go on. Go on. Janine. Erica. Yep. Good. Har something. Yeah. What did you put again? Harky rap. Harky rap. Yeah. And then the opposite was on? By character. No, opposite, but similar. Similar. Haricum. Haricum. Haricum. Haricum. Haricum. Haricum. Haricum. Yeah. Right? Yeah. Have I said it right? Yeah, kind of. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Harky rap. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Harky rap. Harky rap. Yeah. Rap. Yeah. Like night. Yeah. Right? Yeah. Okay. Harky rap. Yeah. Haricum. Haricum. Haricum. Yeah. Haricum. Mustafa and Mona. Trenton. That one I got right. And Zoher. Zoher. Zoher. Zoher. Zoher. Zoher. Zoher. Zoher. Zoher. Zoher. Zoher. Okay. Zoher. You said no. Errors. Errors. Okay. Anyway, I'll change the names. I'll change the names. Okay. All right. Okay. So what might other people think? They might think it. Right? So social desirability, impression management, thinking it. And with alterational thinking, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, thinking, right? Like, you might be even a certain, when we go for our job interviews, we're putting our best foot forward, but are we really like that? Is the question, right? Probably not. Right? Okay. So, but there are positive things to it too, right? Like the self-report, for example, you are the person that knows yourself the best. So if you answer in an honest way, you know yourself the best way possible, right? So, and observational, remember what I said, personality is like your social reputation, right? But someone close to you would know how to observe you accurately as opposed to someone not. So anyway, regardless, both of these procedures are used, and we actually say that when it comes to personality, use both of them. Okay? All right. So I had you complete the skill. Okay, we got the opportunity to do it, right? We have like five, what's the word I'm looking for? Whole numbers for the five different dimensions. Okay. So what I had you complete was one of the most popular or one of the most widely accepted trait models that are out there. And this is known as the big five, okay? So definitely understand what the big five comprises of, okay? Also, go to your textbook, because I remember seeing a multiple choice on the big five. Go to your textbook and just read up on the big five, as in like more than what I have written on here. Yeah, I don't quite remember what it was, but it was like, oh, I don't remember teaching this, but I'm going to tell my students to do it anyway, okay? Because it was like some stat, like some stat. So just go to the textbook on the big five and just like skim through it, okay? All right, but I'll give you more closer to the 10. Okay, so let's talk about the big five, okay? This is also known as the five factor model of personality. So big five, five factor, obviously that means they're five dimensions, okay? So they're five dimensions of personality. So what are they? It's what you see on the top. Extraversion, emotional stability, agreeableness, conscientiousness, and openness to experience, okay? And I will tell you what each of them corresponds to over the next few slides. But in a nutshell, extraversion has to do with how sociable, positive you are versus how withdrawn or shy. Okay, I acknowledge that this can be very difficult to remember, right? That's a lot. So you know me, you know I love acronyms. So the acronym that I'm going to use is Canoe, okay? So what does Canoe stand for? The C stands for Consciousness, Impulsive, and Unimaginative. Okay, so this is one of the big five. So let's talk about the big five. So this is a very important one. So this is a very important one because that's what we're going to do today. So let's look at the big five, right? Okay, so what does Canoe stand for? The C stands for Conscientiousness, A is for Agreeableness, N is for Neuroticism, which is actually the opposite of emotional stability, okay? O is for Openness to Experience, and then E is for Extraversion. So as you can see, I love nature, right? My expectations had to do with air, and now I'm introducing you to water, okay, with this canoe thing. Make sense? No one laughed at that, you good joke? Okay, no problem. All right, we're moving along. Okay, a few important things to keep in mind when it comes to the big five model, okay? The first is that it is efficient, okay? So the basic premise of this model is that the entire scope of human personality can be efficiently described with these relatively independent five dimensions, okay? The second is that it is based on factor analysis. Now this is a concept that you will learn further in your career, like further, probably if you're taking an advanced level math course, or maybe if you're going to graduate studies. But what does that mean? What does factor analysis mean? Okay, so when we started off this research, we were actually, and I'm going to look at my notes here because I don't want to get this wrong, 17,953 personality traits. That's a lot of personality traits, right? 17,953. Those were reduced to 17. Why? Because they took out synonymous things and stuff like that. Okay, so basically how they were reduced, and they kept on getting reduced, is through these factor analysis. So factor analysis is a statistical procedure, which is what you, this is what it does. It lumps together related items, okay? So in a nutshell, that's what it did. So we used factor analysis, and all these related items were lumped together, and we ended up with five dimensions. Otherwise, we wouldn't be dealing with 17,953 dimensions, which is a lot, all right? Okay. The third is that it is culturally robust. In that the five factor model can be reproduced across many cultures as well as languages. Okay? So the propensities or the factor structures or whatever you may call them, they're similar to the five factors. So you can use basically the same measure to reliably capture the personality traits across cultures. And the fourth is that there is evidence to indicate that these five factors, they're They're heritable and they're stable. Okay? So I've already kind of spoken a little bit about how personality can be a function of our genes, right? As well as the environment. So that stays the case here too, but it's also stable. So you tend to demonstrate the same personality. Yes, experience might change it over time, but for the most part, you will still demonstrate the same. Okay, makes sense? Yes? Okay. So now let's talk about Canute in a little bit more detail. So let's first talk about extraversion. So extraversion really has to do with the comfort level with relationships. Okay? It has to do with how sociable you are. One of the things I want to mention on here. So before I get into that, here's the thing that I want you to know. So extroverted people, right? They tend to prioritize status striving. So write that down somewhere. Status striving. Okay? So extroversion equals status striving. So what is status striving? Status striving is a strong desire to obtain power and influence. Okay? Within a social structure. So it's not surprising that a lot of our leaders, whether you're looking at the groups that you're assigned to or whether you're looking at the nation or whatever it may be, that a lot of our leaders are extroverted individuals. Okay? Makes sense? Okay. So if you score low on this, then you are typically referred to as an introvert. Okay? So what does that mean? Your reserved, your quiet, your timid. Your shy. Okay? But if you score high, you are an extroverted individual. Right? You are talkative, you're sociable, you're passionate, you're assertive, you're bold, you're dominant. There's so many different traits that go under here. Yes, son? What would the range be for low and high? Is it like a number range? Yeah, so hold on, because I will bring that up when we take up what we did. Okay? What is your name? Tanveer. Tanveer. That's great. Yes. I'm getting this. Sully. Sully. Raymond Aaron Trenton. Let's start. And A? And A. It's not Aaron, right? Anthony. Anthony. Good, okay. This is how we remember names. Okay, good. Oh my god, I forgot your name. Tanveer, right? Tanveer. Okay, good. All right. Okay. Up to big five, extroversion is the easiest to judge in zero situations, zero acquaintance situations. So what do I mean by that? These are situations in which two people have just met. Okay? So think about it. It only takes you five minutes to figure out if someone is an extrovert or an introvert. Like it only took me five minutes to figure this out. Now you tell me if you fall in that category, okay? It took me five minutes to figure out that Anthony is an introvert. Anthony, am I right? Good. Right? It took me five minutes to figure out that my har-i-ra. Har-kira. Har-kira. Yes. Is an extrovert. I'm like 50-50. 50-50, okay. Sure, I'm trying to see if you will be an extrovert. Just put this on an extrovert. Is he really? He is. I already don't know. I don't know myself. Well, we'll figure it out right now. You get two bar girls. One of them has to be an extrovert. Anyway, who is an extrovert? Who did the head? He's not an extrovert. He's not an extrovert. You can tell he's not an extrovert. I think it might be Aaron. I think it might be Aaron. I think it might be Aaron. Down the middle. Down the middle. That's weird. Okay, anyway. Okay, didn't take too long to figure out. Honestly, I feel like you would be in between, but I honestly thought you might be an extrovert. I thought you would be there. I'm like 70-25. Huh? 70-25. Oh. So you weren't expecting that. 75-25. 70%. You were an extrovert? Let's do 80-20. 80-20. Yeah, so I was correct. Okay. Right? Yeah. Correct. You were trying to fool me. I was correct. Okay. All right, good. So that's zero acquaintance situation. Interestingly enough, extroversion is related to positive affectivity. What is that? Positive affectivity is basically a dispositional tendency to experience positive. Positive. Engaging moods. Right? So what are some of these positive engaging moods? Well, it might be enthusiasm, it might be excitement, it might be elation, and so forth. Okay? So the tendency to experience positive moods across situations may actually explain why So extroverts tend to be more satisfied with their jobs. Okay? And then as a fun fact, here's another thing. So extroversion is like outside of the workplace, extroverted individuals or extroversion is associated with a number of other positive outcomes. Right? So they might have more partners. Like they probably have gone through a lot of relationships, romantic relationships. So they have more dating partners. They might actually have more friends as well. Right? And they tend parties a lot. Now he's like, no, I'm not 80-20. I'm 50-50. Right? I don't know. It's all debatable. It's all debatable. Sure. Okay. All right. And then finally, extroversion is not necessarily related to performance across all jobs or occupations. Right? It tends to be related to jobs where you need a social interaction. Okay? So an extrovert will do well in places that have that social element. Introverts can still be successful, but they have to train themselves. Okay? So teaching is basically an arena where social interaction is required. Right? Zero acquaintance situation. You tell me, am I an introvert or an extrovert? Introvert. Wow. This is a trick question. Extrovert. Extrovert. Okay. How many of us concur? How many of us think I'm an introvert? I think you're an introvert who learned to be more extroverted. Good. This is what an extroverted person would say. Right? But that's true. You guys are right. So I'm an introvert. Right? But I have to train myself because this is the profession that I chose for myself. It's a social interaction. I needed to train myself to be an extrovert. Okay? So I do, but after class, I don't want to talk to anyone. I just want to be left by myself. I want to curl up, read a book. I just want to be left alone. I've not enjoyed the social relationships that I'm part of. Truth be told. Right? Okay. And I could have chosen a profession that aligned with this particular dimension, but I'm not good with numbers. I hate IT. So I would, right? I would be horrible at it. So it had to be some level of interaction. And that was another joke which no one laughed at. This is why an introvert is never good at jokes. Okay. So going back to the exercise that I just had you complete, these items capture extroversion. Okay? For your test, do you know, do you need to know this? No. For your test, you just need to understand this. What's meant by high and low? So low is introversion, someone who is reserved, quiet, timid, and then know that high is someone who's talkative, social, sociable and whatnot. Okay? All right. Now let's talk about neuroticism. So this particular dimension has, very rarely do we talk about social or emotional stability. We look at it from the lens of neuroticism. Okay? So this has to do with your ability to handle stress. Okay. Someone who scores low on this is neurotic. Okay? What does that mean? Someone who is anxious, insecure, sensitive, angry, depressed. Okay? Someone who scores high, emotionally stable. So you're calm, you're self-confident, you're secure, you're content about yourself, as well as your place in this world. Okay? Emotional stability is related to negative affectivity. So I already told you what positive affectivity was. What do you think negative affectivity refers to? What was positive affectivity? Yes? Like you just have negative interactions throughout your life? No, no, no. It has to do with mood. Oh, like you're just in a negative mood. Yes. You experience more of the negative moods. Yes, what's that? It would also be related to being a mood killer, like in your God-like mind. Yeah, sure. That would be you. Ooh. Ooh. Ooh. Ooh. That's like the only time when I bring people down, do you laugh. That's not nice of you guys, okay? That's a joke. You know you're one of my favorite people. Now they're like, how do I become one of Sam's favorite people? For instance, like I don't hear how you go to finance when I count it. What? I don't go to finance. You don't go to finance? I don't go to finance. Oh, you don't have finance? Good luck. No. What if you do have it? Do you like numbers? Yeah. Okay. You seem like the person who would like numbers. Why? I see that. Right? No, I'm kidding. I'm teasing. I want to make you laugh. I want you to enjoy this, okay? But Mustafa, okay, going back to you. Yes, unpleasant moods, and of course that would have a negative effect on us, right? I hope that's not me. Okay? Good. All right, good. Okay. So, you experience unpleasant moods, right? So, you experience nervousness. You experience annoyance. You experience hostility. So, this is why people who are neurotic are not happy at the workplace. But those who are more stable emotionally are happy at the workplace. They're more satisfied with the job. Does that make sense? Okay, good. All right. Do I really want you to know this? No, let's forget that. I don't think it's going to be on your test either. But I will just talk about this. So, neuroticism actually influences the way that people deal with stressful situations. Okay? Emotional stability is associated with the first, which is differential exposure to stressors. Meaning that neurotic individuals are more likely to appraise day-to-day situations as stressful. Okay? So, basically, they then become exposed to the stressors more frequently because they're viewing it as stressful. Does that make sense? Okay. Emotional stability is more so with differential reactivity. But again, you don't really need to know this. What that means is that neurotic individuals are less likely to believe that they can cope with the stressors that they experience. Okay? I just had a question. Like, what do you say that for neuroticism, like, would people score below the average, like, below 50%? Would they be on the bottom percentile? You guys really want to know how you did on the test, right? So, wait. Wait, I will come to you. I will come. Just wait. Just hold on until you know the definition. Okay? Because there's a reason why I'm not telling you right now. Emotional stability and neuroticism are like polar opposites. Yes. Yeah. So, is this slide referring to the low high referring to emotional stability or the low high referring to neuroticism? No. So, the low is referring to neuroticism and the high is referring to emotional stability. Okay. Okay. Make sense? Yeah. Did you all get that? Okay. Good. Okay. So, why is this the second best predictor of job performance? The first best predictor is conscientiousness, which I'll describe in a few minutes. But why is this the second best predictor of job performance? Why do you think? Because you're going to go through stressful times at your job and it depends on your time. Exactly. Right? Like, it's, you're not going to, you're not going to be able to deal with the stressors. Right? So, we don't really want a lot of robotic individuals in the workforce. Right? So, you kind of have to train yourself to be emotionally calm and stable. All right. Going back to the exercise, these are the terms or these are the adjectives, I would say, that capture emotional stability and neuroticism. Okay? Let's now talk about agreeableness, the complete opposite of this cartoon over here. Agreeableness has to do with your ability to get along with others. Okay? It's your degree of courtesy, trust, cooperation, and tolerance. So, that's you. So, here's the thing. Agreeable people, they prioritize, write this down, they prioritize communion striving. Okay? Communion striving. So, what does that mean? They focus on really getting along with others. Okay? So, people who score low on this particular dimension, they focus on their own needs, they're less likely to be liked by others, they're suspicious, they're inflexible, they're irritable, but those who score high are more forgiving, they're good natured, they're cooperative, they're warm, they're trusted. Okay? If you score low, just based on these adjectives, you can tell that you don't really like to get along with others. Right? People irritate you. If you score high, you can tell that you do want to get along with others, you do want to vent to like him, and so you're going to be more forgiving and good natured and cooperative and all that stuff. Okay? Now, what do we see? Agreeableness is not related to performance across all jobs. Right? Or occupation. Why not? Because remember that term that I gave you in the beginning, the communion striving? Right? Striving for communion is beneficial in some jobs, but not others. Okay? So, to get along with others is beneficial in some, but not others. Okay? What might be some of those jobs? Okay? Think about it. So, you want interaction, you want to help others, you want to cooperate, you want to nurture others, you want to involve teamwork and cooperation. So, what are some jobs that you can think of where getting along with others is beneficial? So, hair. Teaching. Teaching. Good. Aaron. Customer service. Customer service. Salim. Salim. Politics. Politics. Yes, you're right. No, it took me a while to register, but you're right. Jenny. Child care. Child care. Good. Tanveer? You didn't have, did you have your hand up? Teaching. Teaching. Do you want another one? You can take another stab at it. Really? Where you interact with others and you want them to like you. A bank teller. Bank teller. Sure. Okay, what is your name? Jimmy. Jimmy. Okay, yes. Heart. Hiccup. Hiccup. Hiccup. Hiccup. Hiccup. Hiccup. Hiccup. Hiccup. No, no, with an M at the end. A-I-K-A-M. Hiccup. A-I-K-A-M. Hiccup. Hiccup. Yes, heart. I was going to say sales. Sales, yeah, sales, right? Okay, here are some more. No, just, I'm going to start with, what does it start with? Sam. Sam. Sam. Sam. Sam. I was going to say a music artist. A movie? A music artist. Music artist, yeah, sure, sure. Broker. Broker. Broker. Broker. Broker. Broker. Yes, okay, sure. Healthcare. Healthcare. Yes, healthcare, nurses, doctors, yes, okay. Here are two more participation marks. Yes, go on. Social work. Social work. What's your name again? Desiree. Desiree. And you're a son? Oh, my? Yeah. The shiny. The shiny? Yeah, I was going to say real estate agent. Real estate agent, okay, good. Yes, go ahead. Any management position, like anywhere. Okay, any management position, sure. Last person. Like a rapper. A rapper, sure. Okay, all right. Okay, so what this is telling us is that there are some occupations, some jobs, we're agreeable individuals will thrive, right? When you don't have, so basically these are jobs where the employee has direct face-to-face or verbal contact with the person that they're interacting with, okay? So agreeableness has actually been shown consistently to have or to be associated with strong customer service skills, okay? So a customer service representative, good ones, are going to be agreeable, okay? Make sense? All right, good. So here are the items from that test that I had you do that captures this particular dimension, okay? Now let's talk about conscientiousness, okay? So conscientiousness, this is the big one when it comes to predicting job requirements, okay? Conscientiousness, formally, it is defined as a degree of organization, dependability, thoroughness, and achievement-oriented activities that a person exhibits, okay? So it's a measure of liability as well as dependability. So these individuals, they show up in time, right, or on time. They persevere on their tasks. They check details. They make sure that their work is accurate. They make sure that it is done right the first time around, okay? So it might be fun to be with someone who is less conscientious, right? It might be fun. Yeah, it might be fun. But in a job setting, when you're hiring someone, you want someone who is high on this particular dimension, as you can imagine, okay? Does that make sense? Okay. So someone who scores low, unreliable, unorganized, unpredictable. Someone who scores high, organized, responsible, diligent, dependable, and so forth, okay? It predicts job performance the best, right? So the obvious question is why is it that conscientious individuals perform better, right? Well, I will talk more about this when we talk about motivation, but there was this one study on sales individuals. And what they found was that conscientiousness was positively related to the sales goals that were set by the individual, okay? As well as the salesperson's commitment to those goals. And goal setting is a form of motivation, okay? We'll talk more about that during motivation. So their findings, basically, I just mentioned one study, but their findings suggest to us that conscientiousness actually works through motivational mechanisms to increase performance, okay? So conscientiousness influences performance through motivational mechanisms. So let me bring in research study here. What's the IV? Conscientiousness, performance, motivational mechanism. Which, what's the IV? Yes. Conscientiousness. What's the DB? Not Erin. Erin's already here. Yes. Job performance. Job performance. What is mechanical, motivational, motivation is what? Is it a moderator or a mediator? Red. Moderator. No. It's a mediator, right? Right, remember mediator explains why a relationship exists, right? A moderator explains to us under what conditions does this relationship exist, okay? Good. Okay, so from your tests, these are the items that capture conscientiousness, okay? Let's talk about openness to experience. So this is the final dimension. So this has to do with the capacity to entertain new ideas, to change as a result of making information to be creative or even open-minded. So those who score low are cautious, they're narrow-minded. Those who score high tend to be more curious, imaginative, playful, artistic, okay? So much like agreeableness and extroversion, the traits associated with openness are actually beneficial in some jobs but not others, okay? So it's related to job performance in some occupations but not others. So what jobs do you think would benefit by having someone who scores high on openness to experience? What do you think? Yes, Heather? Maybe they could give like the entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship, good. Anyone else? Marketing. Marketing, sure. What is your name? Andrew. Andrew. Raymond, did you have something? Marketing, okay. Anyone else? Yes. Artist. Artist, right? Yeah, good. Okay, so you see this, you see an increase in job performance in occupations where or in jobs that are very fluid, right, that are very dynamic. You also see it in occupations where the job demands, there are changes in them and they're rapid in them, okay? You also see it in occupations like you said where you see a lot of speed. Okay. All right. Now one of the other things is that openness is related to training proficiency, okay? So employees who score high on openness to experience, they tend to excel in training and learning environments. Okay? Why? Because their curiosity comes in. Their curiosity gives them this built-in desire and motivation to learn new things, right? And training proficiency, basically what they're referring to is like how successful are you in the training program, okay? And so these are the items that capture the openness to experience dimension, okay? All right. So now let's talk about your results. Okay, so you should have had five full numbers. I don't remember if I told you to average them or if I just told you to sum them up. Which one did I make you do? Sum them up. Sum them up, okay. So each dimension, I believe, I don't remember, let me see how many there were. I think there were eight. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. It was eight. So each dimension, because the scale is out of five and there are eight items for each dimension, it should be out of 40, okay? Anything that is 19 and below is low on that dimension. Anything that is 20 and above is high. Is it reflective of who you are? Did we score high on extroversion? I forgot to do it. You forgot to do it. Oh yeah, I was going to say, I believe you didn't do it. Yeah, okay. How about you just read it? You asked me the question of neuroticism. Yeah, I just have that question. I didn't do it either. Do it so you understand where you fall. Okay, who did it? Oh, great. These are my favorite people now. Okay, great. Okay, so let's talk about it. Let's talk about your scores. Do you think they're reflective of who you are? Somewhat? Is there somebody that threw you off guard? You're like, oh no, I don't think I'm like that. No? Okay. Yes. I quit sedation three years ago, so of course. Okay. And I was surprised that my other friends were not so negative. Oh, did it? Okay, so are you less neurotic now or more neurotic? Less neurotic. So have you gone through any sort of training? No. No? Do you feel less stressed out now than you did three years ago? Three years ago you would have started your program, right? No. No? Oh, sorry. It was the second year. I forgot. I thought it was my third year in general. Yeah, that was around like 12th grade. Oh, so you were finishing up. You were probably stressed about what you did first, right? Okay, so the stressors were more probably at that time than they are now. But did you score the same on the others I mentioned? Or relatively the same? Relatively the same except for extra-reported. Okay, what happened on the extra-reported? It went slightly up. Slightly up, okay. Okay, it's probably pretty high. Okay, it makes sense. But it will stay like that. For the most part, these traits will stay like that until and unless some major event happens, right? Where you need therapy, for example, or you need to change your thing. But for your adulthood, most of these will stay relatively the same. So you said you have to become more extroverted, right? So when did that happen for you? When I joined the profession. And how long was that? 26 minutes. Okay. No, actually it was a little bit. Okay, so I was slowly developing myself. What I mean by that is this. I'll tell you a personal story. So my undergrad, I was like just like, so in high school, I was a little outgoing, right? It was a small high school. I went to a private school, so it was like only 11 of us. Okay? Yeah. So your personality comes out. So I played hockey, I played soccer. Like I was like very good, right? Then when we go into a university setting, my default personality was just introversion. So in undergrad, I really just focused on my study. Like I didn't want to just like that. I was like in my books, I was like one of the highest. I actually graduated with this major too. So it was like I was very much into my books. Then I went to masters. Masters, you're in, so very, very many people apply for a master's program, but very few people get in. Especially for master's PhD, right? So my cohort was only I think maybe about 11 students, right? And I remember this. I still remember it. It was my social psychology class. And we, here, if I give you marks for participation, it's only like 10% at the undergraduate level, right? For each course. Like master's, it's almost 50. It's high, right? Like you have to participate. Like there's no tomorrow. And so three classes went by and I wasn't participating, right? But the instructor was my supervisor. So she knew that I was competent. She knew this, right? She knew that Santa knows her stuff, but she's not saying anything. So she asked me, she took me aside and she said, you know, participation matters a lot. You're not participating, but I know you know the material. So what's going on? And I was like, I just don't know how to say it. Because I was allowing the dominant students to just like to answer the questions, right? So I just didn't know how to like put up my hand and say, I have a thing too. I have a thing too, right? I was also very, oh my goodness, is my response going to be looked in a positive way or not, right? So she asked me, how can I make it easier for you? And I said, pick on me. Please just pick on me. Say Santa, do you have anything to contribute? And so that's what I kind of have I'm doing in my teaching now too. I will either pick on you or I will just wait until everyone has participated. Once you feel better about it, right? So that's when I started to show some changes. So talking more and more and more and more in class, that's when this happened. But when I finished my PhD and I was taught to teach social psychology at York University during my postdoc, it was much bigger than this. It was 200 and I think 20 students, OK? Big lecture hall. And I can you just imagine if I was like, hi, social psychology is a psychology of human beings, right? Like in social, people will not take me seriously. So there's this one that I will talk about it in communication when we talk about that chapter. I'm hoping I get the time to show you that video. There's this one video that I was introduced to in my PhD. And it's all about power postures, right? So it talks a little bit about how like, you know, powerful postures are like you just like what MBA students do, right? Like they're just like, yeah, like this, like open your body. And that brings in a number of different positive outcomes, like your confidence level, your testosterone goes up and your cortisol goes down and all that stuff. Right. So I did that. I remember right before my class, I went into the bathroom and I did the powerful posture. And I continued doing that for my social psych class. And and then that's how I trained myself. So I've been doing it. Now I don't. Now I just now I'm like very confidently. I'm like, OK, I'm just going to say whatever. Right. I reached that point now, but it took a lot of training for me to get to that point. Why? You want to change something? No, no, I was just curious because yeah, because I thought that you were extroverted just like from nature. But then when you like, oh, I was introverted before. I was always quiet. The reserved one, the shy, the timid one. I'm thankful to the people who helped me in that journey. But it took many years of training to get to that point. Right. And so today I give off this expression. But honestly, I like being on my own. Right. So yeah, anyway, good question. OK. So what happens? So what I gave you was just one of the scales. The actual scale is much longer. The big five is way longer. I gave you the reduced version. And I also just used an arbitrary halfway midpoint to do high and low. But how does it actually work? When you complete this, this is something that you will see. OK. So you will see this. So I'm showing like, this is not my result. This is not my result. You can just find it from the internet. So it kind of like displays to you where you score on that particular dimension. OK. But one of the things I have noticed, and research indicates this as well, is that during your adulthood, I have already mentioned this, during your adulthood, your personality tends to be the same. Right. So it develops in your childhood. And then during your adulthood, you remain the same. So if you are scoring higher in conscientiousness today, most likely you're going to be scoring higher in conscientiousness until the end of your, I don't know if it's an academic career, but no, it will be until the end of your career. Until the end of your career. OK. And the same thing goes for all the other factors. However, one of the things they say, and I still want to do some research on it, is like when you become even older, you vote your default personality. That is something I want to understand a little bit more. Because I want to understand my dad. Really, I do. He's so cynical, and I'm just like, it's going to get worse. That's what everyone says, right? Like he's going to get worse and worse and worse. And I'm like, what's my dad's default personality like growing up? Like I really want to know what it is. Anyway, so maybe I'll go back to integration. I'm in my 80s and 90s. Yes? Don't you think this way of thinking is kind of like a self-fulfilled prophecy, and it can trap you? Oh, OK. What do you mean by that? How would it trap you? Because you're saying that your personality doesn't change throughout your adulthood. Because you think this, let's say you're an integrated person, because you think you're not going to change, you're actually not changing. No, no, no. I don't think it would become like that. I think you know where you're coming from. But then you would score very low on openness to experience, for example. Right? That's kind of the thing. If you're scoring high, you're more likely... It's not going to become a self-fulfilling prophecy. It's just these are the personality traits that describe you right now. They're most likely going to stick with you. Yes, experiences, training, all that stuff will change it. But your default, your dominant personality will remain the same. Does that help? Yeah. Do you feel better about this test? I mean, I didn't do the test, but I'm just... Oh my god. What was she talking about? I didn't do the test, but it just seems like it's a little trapped. No, it's not. It's not. I understand where you're coming from, but it's not. There's a lot of research to back this up. There's a lot of research, first of all, to back up the dimension. There's a lot of research to indicate that it tends to be relatively stable over time. But I understand where you're coming from. I understand why you would feel that way. And this is another thing. So if you look at the items that I gave you, the actual scale has way more than 40 items or whatever it is. It has more. And you're assessing the dimension in various different ways. So they'll be asking you two or three questions that are assessing the same thing, but in a different way. So that way, you can take off all these self-fulfilling prophecies or any alternative explanation. Because they've asked you this. You'll understand this more when you take research methods, if you ever do. But that's one of the ways in which you can take away all the alternative explanation. And so this is how you usually see it. Even if you just type in big five in Google, this is what will come up. I think I've already mentioned all of this. So I don't really need to mention this. This is just a summary of things. So don't really need to. Don't really need to. Just understand this. Conscientiousness, important for almost all the jobs, is the strongest predictor of job performance. What was the second strongest predictor of job performance? Do we remember? Yes. Neuroarticism. Neuroarticism, okay. Extraversion, neuroticism. This is good for those that have social interaction. Openness experience, more so with jobs with learning creativity, agreeableness, more so with cooperative interactions. And then there's more research, so much research to basically say that it's related to a number of different outcomes that OBE specialists are interested in. And yeah, so there you go. Okay, one of the things I want to talk about is the Myers-Bergs type indicator, MBTI. Have we heard of that? Yeah. Have we gone through it? Yes. Yes? Yeah, okay. So let me talk a little bit about this, okay? And then let me tell you, let me trash talk this. Okay? So MBTI, this is what it does, okay? It basically classifies you on four dimensions to determine one of 16 possible personality types. Okay? So what are these four axes? So it's written over there. Sociable and agreeableness versus quiet and shy, practical and orderly, unconsciousness. So that's basically how you would read that, okay? So there's 16 possible personality types according to this particular personality test, okay? INTJ is one of them, okay? INTJ, I think I believe, are said to be revision, they're supposed to be what they're called. They have like original minds. They have great drive for their own ideas and purposes. I forget the exact terminology. I think it's like visionary or something like that. I could be wrong, okay? But that's that. There's another thing called ESTJ. Those are known as organizers, so they're more realistic, logical, analytical, and so forth. Okay, so sure, MBTI is there. And it's actually used quite often in the industry, okay? But it shouldn't be used, okay? It should definitely not be used at the selection for the top candidate. Why is that? Because there is not enough empirical research to back it up, okay? Big Five has a lot more research to it. It's the most widely accepted personality test. Why? Because there's research to back it up, okay? The same cannot be said about this. There just isn't enough empirical research to back it up. But then just think about it. People are investing time, they're investing money to become MBTI specialists, right? Certified trainers, certified coaches. And it takes, in order for you to become certified in this particular personality test, it takes you four days and you pay about $2,000. Yeah, $2,000 to become certified trainer or coaches on this particular personality test that has no empirical evidence. Very little. What does it pay? Four days. Four days to take it and you pay $2,000. I don't know. But people are using it. HR specialists are using it in the industry, right? But they shouldn't be. They should be using the Big Five instead. Right? Yes, Henry? Is it just me? Is that why there's not much research on it? Is it just me? New. New. No, it's not new. It's been there for a long time. Then why is there not... It was based on intuition, right, back in the day. And people just went with it. Really. People just went with it. And so do not use it. It's not based, like I said, it was based on intuition. It was not validated by empirical research or scientific method. And Adam Grant was one of the best OVEHR specialists out there. We all look up to him. And he, too, is saying, do not use it. So as scholars, as OVEHR scholars, we say, do not use it. So if ever you go into HR, do not use it. Use one of the other ones that has scientific backing. However, I will tell you what it could be good for. It could actually be good for when it comes to team composition. Okay? So it doesn't tell you whether or not you're going to be successful on job performance, for example. There's no data to back it up. But it can tell you where a team composition is. So if you have, like, 4I, NTJR, whatever, those guys could work well together. And that makes it why we laugh. My two best friends are back. Tell me! Not you! I'm not thinking of you! But you can share your funny story, too. Is it related to this? No, no. It's really not. Am I not teaching properly? No, you're good. So what are we going to use? Big Five, not MBTI. So if you go into HR, remember that. Okay. Now the next few slides, I'm not going to go through. What I wanted to provide you, so what I did was I read the textbook. And I provided you with a summary of what's written in the textbook. So just have a read. These are some personality traits that you should be aware of. So I basically just took the textbook and I summarized them over the next few slides. Does that make sense? I'm not going to read it. It's too much. I only have 15 minutes if you want to. Okay? Yeah. So there will be some questions. No, multiple traits. These are all other personality traits that you should be aware of. These are all short answers. Okay? Yes? I did so much work for you. Like I did everything. I told you what's the difference, what are the things they do, all that stuff. I'm going to help you. Okay. This is an amazing talk if everyone wanted to. One of the things I said, that extroverted individuals tend to be more in the leadership role. But if you're an introvert, I don't want you to feel like you can't help me. So this is a great textbook. You can start from 13.20. It kind of talks about how introverts can also be. Okay? So for all my introverts out there, if you wanted, don't be disheartened. Take a look at this particular textbook. Okay? Any questions? Are we good? Do you think we're good at personality? Let's move on. Let's move on to learning. Which is probably where I'm going to record my session. Okay. Okay. I'll keep it in the middle. So learning. Let's talk about this now. Okay. So here is the lecture. Let's talk about.