 The math course started today. Everything from the first couple of weeks was intro, a little bit of theory and definition trying to give us an understanding of why you're doing this. Today, we're going to look at that. So we're going to finish up classical probability and talk about the things you can write, the things you can put in the math, the laws, the limitations, the qualifications, and we're going to finish the class, I think, with conditional probability. Once you're done with conditional probability, you can work on the first quiz. Well, I mean, you've already started working on it. You can work on the fifth quiz. You can do the fifth quiz. The way you can do it is you can work on the fifth quiz. You can work on the sixth quiz. You can work on the sixth quiz. The way these quizzes are set up, we've talked about it, is that you get two attempts per question. And the questions are the same for everyone, and they don't change between attempts. So it doesn't take long to realize that you shouldn't be able to get a good score. That said, you should consider the quizzes to be part of your homework and study tools. If you are just giving the answers from someone else, you are not doing this course. You want to be learning the course as you go, and many parts of this course build on previous parts. So if you think you're just going to prove through and then study for the midterm, you will find the midterm challenging. If you went on this course a little bit each week, you could do the quizzes properly. By the time you get to the midterm, you'll be like, oh, this is easier than I would have expected. It's almost a promise I can make to you. You find the grand quiz course pretty good. Okay. So... Any questions on the first quiz? So... So, behind me here, we have already put the first notes for today. It hurts me that although I keep talking about the probability of a quiz, that we find it at a relative likelihood that we should probably take that second and define it from a more mathematical perspective. So it's the number of times the best of curbs in the population divided by the population. You have probably seen some versions of it before, and you know what they're doing. They're kind of more formal than regular ones. And an example... What is it doing? I'm going to keep using a deck of cards... What the fuck? ...which has horses. And you can draw on it. Move the camera like this. Okay. Do you like the little table of contents that is long? Okay. Okay. So... Maybe you have built in tables like the one on the right, but you can do it quickly in case you haven't done the M.O.R. So in a deck of cards, there are 13 hearts, 13 clubs, 13 diamonds, and 13 spades. And if you add that all up, you get 52 cards. Which is it? Or bigger? And each of those is the rule end, and then you just pay the probability of the event. Each of these is 13 or 52. Okay. The basic frequency state. And in classical probability, where we completely understand the system and population, this is always how we do things. We can make more complicated frequency tables, which then help you answer more frequently. I can write something like... So the probability of trying at speed from a shock death is one over 10. Okay. That is the beginning of my half. Now, last week, I asked a question like... What is the probability of drawing an ace or a spade? Okay. We can build a more interesting frequency table. Okay. So frequency tables don't have to be... I always want to call that one dimensional. You can make a little bit. So over here, I can say spade, and I can say not spade. And that's the spade. I can say the ace, and the spade. And now you have to be a little bit more careful how you fill this in. If you do fill this in properly, the rest of the probability actually get quick. Over here is where we want the number of spades. I'm going to start with an E. And... And then we know there are 39 sprockets. And 52. Okay. I'm just going to make a little note. Sometimes filling in the outside of this table is easier, because I know how many spades there are, and do not spade, because it's just in the middle here. I also know how many aces there are. Unless there are 48 not aces. And you can also, because we understand the population, we can also count all of the things inside. So there are also ways to build these tables, you just need to understand how they work. So an ace of spades, there's really only one in the deck. And actually from there, the rest of it is math. The rest of it is like, subtraction. I know that's a little bit of a problem, but I'm going to show you how to do that. The rest of it is like, subtraction. I know how many, I know there's one ace of spades, and I know there's four aces, so you know how to count them. There are three aces in the right space. But also this number has to add to that. I'm going to say one, two, add. So the value is around the top. So in front of the camera, I will put this little note that says you can calculate the rest, so you can calculate the number of the two calculations. That is three, that is 12, and that is 36. So you can manually count those numbers if you get on a deck of cards and look at them, or if you get on a deck of cards and look at them, or if you have blue numbers and red numbers, you can subtract, take it to the left. You can turn this frequency table into a probability table, or you can start directly answering questions like this. Thank you. So you can turn that frequency table into a probability table. And I will just make, I won't even do the calculations, but it's going to make this really obvious what I'm doing. So every one of the cells can get divided by 52. So any problems? Problems with the label. You can simplify these if you want, but to make it obvious what I am doing, I'm going to leave them like this. And once you have this table, or that table, you can start answering questions that are a little more complicated. And you can do them with the help of the probability box. Your test calls this the general law of division perfect as opposed to maybe the definite law of division perfect. So you can do this with the help of the probability box. And you can do this with the help of the probability box. As opposed to maybe the definite law of division. OK. And when we talk about addition, we are talking about probability at A and or B. If you will also remember, I open the room. So the law of addition helps you calculate unions. And how do we do that? Well, you can look up at my table, either table, or whatever you like. And if I am trying to calculate probability at A or at B, this is hand over. So it's A or at B for both. And then I want to add up all of the times with an A and all the times with a table. So probability of A, probability of B. But there's a cross. And that is, if you add up all the A's and you add up all the space, you have double confidence. OK. And then I'm going to bring that back in a sec after I emphasize you see by adding up all the A's and all of the space that we have counted. So we have to subtract to see if the fake is right. And what is that? It's the intersection. So this is the general law of addition. If you want to add two probabilities, you have to add the probability of one, which is probably the second, and then subtract where they intersect, because you've double-counted that. So probability of A is 4 over 52. Probability of A is maybe 13 over 52. Probability of A intersects table space. 1 over 52. And that is the three values we need for A. So there are four A's in 13 spaces and one time that we need for both. OK. So we're going to get plugged within. OK. OK. Now, the law of addition obsesses calculators. But you can also calculate it directly from the frequency table, because that 16 over 52 I calculated over there is just the sum of these three numbers as well. OK. So you can also, these three numbers are, well, those three numbers are 52, or it's this one, this one, and this one. All the ones that are A's are states. So you can calculate directly from the table, or you can use the table. Whatever is more convenient. Whoops. I wrote 16 when I meant this place. OK. That is the general law of addition. It can be done by formula. It can be done by table. You can do both to double check your work. Questions? There are so many questions coming up with this. OK. Let's put that one. So that's a nice one. OK. OK. There is a special case of a law of addition where if you note the events are mutually exclusive, it gets easier. So if you note the events are mutually exclusive, that means they don't intersect, which means the probability of their intersection being 90 is zero. If you look at that formula, and that's the thing on the right over double counting, if that goes away, what's left? It's just B A plus B B. So A, you can see is just B of A plus B of B. But it is super important that you only apply this formula if the events are mutually exclusive. I don't want to remind that. So you can cheat. And use a simpler formula if you know the event is a solution. OK. In an old probability, I stumbled across a misunderstanding of this rule that was like coded to something general in the US. So someone was talking about a new type of missile, and how likely this missile was to hit its target. And it had something like a 1 third chance of hitting its target. And the general was like, OK, so we just need to fire three missiles. And if we add up the 1 third, the 1 third, the 1 third, we will be sure to hit our target. But those events are not mutually exclusive. The first missile could miss, the second missile could miss, or both hits are wrong. So you can't do that. You can't just add up probabilities. And this misunderstanding apparently can go on for a lifetime. Maybe someday, maybe even today, we'll talk about the 12th package. OK. OK. So next, we need to talk about conditional problems. OK. Conditional probability is one of the trickier things we do in first action course. And conditional probability can be intuitive, but it can also be a little tricky. OK. What is that? OK. So the right conditional probability likes the probability of A with a vertical bar, which I think is called a height. So A, height, and B, which you read as the probability of event A, the probability of A. Given that, that's what the height means, B has already happened. And there's a formula for it, which is not bad. And I'm also going to try and make sure you understand why conditional probability happens. Before I start, the intersection of A and B divided by probability B. Not terrible. And you can use the table you've been building to answer conditional probability questions. In fact, I do recommend building these tables for a while. They're a little slower than just applying the formula's direction. But if you have a table, you can see the answers for all these questions. But I also want you to get kind of an intuitive feel for what conditional probability is. How the probability of events changes when other things happen first. So continuing with my deck of cards. So imagine I draw a card. Let's ask you questions. What is the probability I group my drawings into? And now I'm going to say, what is the probability that I'm going to start abbreviating the R of A? What is the probability I just need to say, if I draw it and look at it, I'm not sure if it's A or B? If I draw it and look at it, I'm not sure if it's A. But I tell you, oh, it's a space. Or even stronger, what if I say, oh, it's a piece? So if I say, if I keep that first, I'm telling you it's A. OK. So the probability you draw a piece of space is not very good. There is one. And you can see that it's not very good. So it's not very good. So what is the probability that I draw a piece of space? The probability you draw a piece of space is not very good. There is one of them in the deck. It is 1 in 50. And you saw this on the frequency tables. Actually, there, A is big, 1 in 50. So what happens if I instead draw a heart and peek at it? Because I'm looking at it, I'm like, oh, it's actually an ace. So now you know I'm holding only one of four aces, right? And I don't have the right to do that. But if you know I'm holding one of four aces, you know I'm holding one of four aces. So I'm holding one of four aces. And I'm holding one of four aces. But if you know I'm holding one of four aces, now it was one ace out of four aces. And that's actually the end. One ace of four aces. So the probability had improved to a quarter, now that I'm giving you this additional information back. And that is the basic idea of high conditional probability. Is that the probabilities change if something's already happened. Something. That's it. And. So to do this with the formula, we need the probability of A intersection B, which is the probability that is both an ace and a state. And keep in mind that the law of addition is and or. Oh, like or. The law of addition is for. And the intersection rule, this is and. And just kind of for a little reminder here, that the law of addition. The law of addition is for and or, but the intersection is just and. So if it's an ace and a state, it's probably A1 and A2. And we need the probability of B, which is the thing that already happened. Which is that it's an ace. Which is a quarter. And if I plug these two things into my formula, it could spit up the answer that I figured out by myself. Wait. He can tell you it's an ace. One, A1 is 52. The probability of an ace is one quarter. Oh, I know what's wrong. The probability of a right ace is one out of 13. Right on the table. 4H is at a 52. The probability of an ace is one out of 13. What's the name of it? It's an ace. Conveniently, we even calculated these numbers already. So I'm going to leave on the board there. Red. Okay. So we have this intuitive understanding over here, which is like, probably the probability of an ace is a one out of 52. But if you keep this in mind, you're going to get a point. The probability of drawing these is a one out of 52. But if you keep at it and know it's an ace already, you're probably going to have a two to a quarter. Which is the answer to my question. The conditional probability formula can walk you through the same thing. So you need the intersection. Ace intersects A, which is one out of 52. Which we had in the rest of the board there. And probably an ace, one out of 13. Also something we had in right there. Take those two numbers, plug them in, and it fits in. We are, uh, we are about at break time. I don't really have anything to do. So why don't you just take our break now? You can ask questions about conditional probability if you like. And afterwards I have a whole series of problems. The long-fall vacation is the probability of A and B happening. The answer is A and then B happening. It's kind of like, it's either, you can think about it either way, and both are correct. It's the probability of two things happening at the same time. Or of like, one thing happening and then the next thing happening. Um, although maybe I should rearrange A and B so that it's very obvious. Hello. I might be rearranging this. Let's rearrange A and B. It's a present constant. Or a formulator. So if you need to find the probability of two things happening, you just rearrange that formulator. So the probability of A and B is the intersection. We talked about over here. And so that is the probability of B happening. And the probability of A happening. And then B happening. I'm going to put this up so you can see it better. This is the probability of B, right? This is the probability of A. Given B. So if you have the probability of B, B happens. Now you know that B happens, you know what that means. And then the probability of A. So it's probability of A times probability of B, knowing that B happened. Which is your probability of A and B. And if you look carefully, you will see that I have just rearranged that. The law of multiplication is part of conditional probability. In that, as long as you have two of these things, you can get to the third one. You can also do it from the table. Which we will object to practice a bit. So I'm going to put that up a bit in case you're like training to see it. You need to hammer and see it for a bit. You need to hammer and see it for a bit. And the rest of us will move on to my favorite conditional probability example. Which I saw in a magazine a few years ago, if you'll believe it. As usual, my obsession with co-ordination and vaccines will come into play here. So a few years ago, rapid tests were just coming up. 2021-ish, the first rapid test for being issued. And some enterprising journalists realized that the way rapid tests work, because they want perfect, was essentially a conditional probability problem. So how can I, how can I lay this down? Concentration is a probability example. So they got to get it. So, so, so. Don't. Don't. This is my old house. Don't. And this problem can be extended through any type of test, like the analysis I'm about to do, including tests for other diseases or tests for pregnancy. Any test you like. So other tests for disease, pregnancy, etc. People also use these tests like, whether athletes add to the drug-liquid system, or they use a type of an ad. Drugs, etc. So as opposed to know how accurate rapid tests are, what you're really interested in is the moment that you take a rapid test, how likely is it to be correct for you? And it turns out that the answer is not the same. This is my old house. It turns out that the answer to this question, like if I tell you how accurate tests are, and then I give you a test and you do it, you can use the accuracy of the test, but it's not the end of the story. How likely you are to personally, like, have a, have, oh, given the results of the test, are different depending on the test. And we're going to learn a whole bunch of terms that are used in practice called lists. Okay, so, you're going to first learn two things about a test. So, maybe because of COVID, you're perfect, but there are actually two methods of how accurate a test is. The first one is called test sensitive. For two, how sensitive it is to detecting latest findings. Do you want to actually find the key into it? It will ask a lot of slides. This is going to go through this much. Actually, I only learned these terms because of COVID. Before this, you didn't really care about accurate tests. You just needed one test. So, it is probably a lot of detecting. And I have to distinguish between two things here. It's really important, and if it helps you to think about it in terms of, like, performance of nesting drugs or pregnancy, there is a difference between what the test is and what is the truth. So, you either are or aren't pregnant, you either are or aren't using performance nesting drugs, you either are or aren't in fact sick or spoken. You have to figure this out with COVID, while you are doing the PCR test. So, the polyamide chain reaction of the PCR test, and conclusively, tests for a test. The test sensitivity is how often the test said that you were positive when a subsequent PCR test said that you were infected. And remember that with tests, positive means that a detective is not necessarily with him. Positive means that he is found with the word positive. So, the probability of positive, given a PCR test, and the first round of COVID rapid tests had a test sensitivity of 87.5%. Oh yeah. The probability that it tested positive, given that you were actually sick, is 87.5%. That's fantastic. So, there are a couple of ways that they calculate it so that they could have calculated it. One is that you get a bunch of people that have been tested by PCR tests, good tests, and they say, hey, by the way, since you're sick, can you take this rapid test and let's see how well it works? And 87.5% of the time, what's the difference between the other way around? It could have been like, you do a bunch of tests, and then you send people off to get PCR tests as well, and you say, okay, how's the people who got COVID, how many are positive? Why is that number not 100%? Have you all taken rapid tests? The main reason that's not 100% is you do not do the test right, or maybe not doing it at the right time, and you're not doing it right. One second, one second, one second. It is pretty easy to mess up that test, like if you don't find enough virus material and you can report the sick after four hours. So that would be user error, if you do it too early or too late, and the virus is not made through. This is probably what's gone, so that's why it's not 100%. The other type of sensitive, the other type of test accuracy is known as test-testing. It's a test-testing. It's a test-testing. It's a test-testing. Nothing's worked today. It's a test-testing. So test specificity is how good it is at clearing. So same idea, a PCR test at some point confirms that you do not have COVID, and we check either before or after whether the rapid test was accurate. You get a negative result given you don't have COVID. We write this as probability negative given the rapid test was accurate. You get a negative result given you don't have COVID. We write this as probability negative we'll say no COVID. And it turns out that this was right. I mean, it's not. And I suspect that the only errors here may have involved you there again on misreading the test, like, oh, it says that even though it returned a negative result it actually was... What did you get? 280 years old. How many did you get? You do it. Misreading the test. Where's the other stuff? Do it, do it, do it, do it, do it. Okay. So you have the test sensitivity and the test testinficity two different accuracies telling you how good it is at detecting COVID and how good it is at confirming that you don't have COVID. So you're like, okay, so we know it's pretty accurate. Doesn't that just mean we're like over the top of the test? Yeah. Doesn't that just mean we're like we're good? We know how accurate it is. Well, not exactly. This is where the conditional probability comes into play. That's a fast... That's a fast... So now you think you might be sick and you take the test or you want to go to a you know, a class or a part of your life and you think you're not sick but just in case you're, you know, responsible you don't want to contact your own friends you don't want to contact your own friends you take a test to make sure that you're not sick. So what are you actually interested in? You want to know if the test is negative for the first one if you think you might be sick and take a test and the test is negative, you're wondering could I still have the test? Right? And I guess I'm going to respond about it over because you're kind of wondering the same thing with the second one too. So what you're really wondering is given the test is negative do you approach and do you notice how the order of the statement is changed? That is really important and that's really important in order to know the right and wrong is it negative or is it negative? Where is the angle? I think we're supposed to learn a angle later but I think we should take the angle as a rule. So I'm going to be fast. What the fuck is that? If you want to flip so if you have one and want to flip it into the other so A giving B A divided by one divided by B and multiplied by A A times A over B over B So you can also do this using the frequency table you can get with the formula and finally I'm going to show you this really neat technique that allows you to organize everything and do these calculations another way so we're going to do that right now. So I'm going to answer the question on that center board. If the test is negative, could I still have a function? And I can answer that with the formulas that we have collected but the first time you do it it's a little tricky to keep track of all those formulas and which numbers you're aware of but you also have this technique this table technique that I'm going to teach you hopefully. So I'm going to show you how to do this in a minute. So there's this important concept in the language thing called quites and maybe you have heard the term you need to update your progress this is kind of what we're doing. It's like there's a chance you have COVID there's a chance you don't have COVID and what you're really wondering is if I take this test what can I learn about how I'm going to end up COVID-19? So you start with the prior and these are usually this is like usually unknown but the point is that you have some guess about this and to make this interesting let's pretend that you think you might actually be sick and so the probability that you actually have COVID we're going to guess is like 40%. So you think you're sick you're like I'm taking a test maybe it's too clue maybe it's difficult or maybe it's perfect. So I'm going to guess you have about a 40% chance that you're sick right now because you're taking a test. So you don't usually know what these numbers are but you need a guess for them for them to work. Ben David You collect the test conditions which are the test actors. David You want all of these actors to be right in the moment the probability of a positive to get back to COVID The probability of a negative to get back to COVID The probability of a negative to get back to COVID The probability of a negative to get back to COVID And there are two more conditions which we can calculate. So So So So So So So So So So So So So So the first one that I put in the loop the probability of a negative isn't COVID it's known as a false negative It says you're negative but you're not and that's that and it is one minus that so either if you have COVID it's either right or wrong Right? Even if you have COVID it's either right or wrong Another thing you can see is that these events they add up here the test is correct correct That's what those first two problems are If you have COVID there's an 87% chance the test will be right and a 12% chance it will be wrong And you can do the same thing down here you might say it's a false positive Then you go to T Um Where text has a tree? But I don't like teaching the tree because next time in 275 in business decision model you're going to learn about different trees and it is kind of lame to help students between creating this class and creating the next class I don't think the tree in this class is any different There are three ways to do a workup to do this You can directly apply the formula you keep the deloitte on you can use the tables or you can use the trues because the event will probably involve multiple choices because the event will probably involve multiple choices you only use one of them I prefer the tables that I showed you and I want to emphasize that you need one table per test group Ok So let's since we probably have run out of time for this video let's do the one we're really interested in the one we're really interested in the negative test Oh So the table looks like this We're going to fill it in. We've got five minutes. I think we're good. So this state, borrowing language from using a VDS 275, the state is the thing you're actually interested in. Do you actually? You're using the test to gain additional information about your state. Your state is what you're actually interested in. And you have, and you get the guesses there, about the probability that you have it over. You then carefully grab the conditionals that are associated with the test that you are working with. So we're trying to do the negative table. So over here, we grab the two negative conditionals. And one weird thing that shouldn't happen when you're working with this table is that these two numbers usually don't add up to one, which is a little strange for public works. But the negative COVID conditional, 2135, and the negative no COVID conditional, 2935. I'm going to point out that these don't have to add up to one. They might. And that is one of the most common mistakes that people make when they're building these tables, is that we teach you last week that all probabilities have to add up to one. And so those add up to one. And a lot of other probabilities can add up to one. These add up to one. These add up to one. These don't add up to one. Then you calculate what are called the joint probabilities, which are also the... And to do that, you just multiply. And you get this. And that. And that. And that. And 101 and 25. And you add these two up. You get a special number that is known as the marginal probability. And it is also, conveniently, the probability of a negative threshold. So, what usually happens, like let's say you don't have COVID, 60% chance. Then it should be about a 60% chance that you get a negative result, right? But the test makes mistakes. So there's no COVID of 60%, it's exactly how often it gets a negative result, it turns out to be 60%. And then finally, you divide each and each by that. You get what's called the posterior. So, this is the posterior going to second, we're going over marginal. It gives us the answer to our question. So I have two points left to say. This works out to be .078. And second one turns out to be .921. The two things I have left to say, this one is the answer to our question, which is slightly alarming, because if you take a COVID rapid death, as you did years ago using these accuracies, and you got a negative, you still had about an 8% chance of actually having COVID. And then going to a party sickness, which is distressing. And the other thing I want to say is that next, well, okay, so you have enough knowledge to do it.