 I'm gonna make a variability. Last class, we just started doing that. I put, we talked about range very quickly and I put a couple of terms on there, variance and standard deviation. We're gonna take those calculations today. We will get started a lot more probably, I think, by the second half of class and then I'll take us into the next class. And we're, I think your first quiz covers all the way through the last two more. So we have a little bit more to do before you even finish your first quiz. I mean, by the end of this week or early next week, you're gonna try to have a quick quiz. You have a little bit of a nice, you have the video textbook program. We think you should stay in for a little bit, but if you want an update, you do it by the next week. And then your quick one is due on the second week. You only can do the quizzes if you pay in ETA or you buy a new one. Probably get for admins. Maybe after the break or by next class, I've been asked a couple times how do I practice for the four times? We have a few different places you can practice online. And so maybe I might remember after the break or on Thursday class, I'll walk you through a couple places in my little space and you should know all the different places you can get help. Questions before we get started? Okay, so I did one thing, it's not a mistake, I just did something out of order last class. Near the end of your notes last class, you saw that we have notes on what a population is and what a sample is for so long. And what I could tell you was a couple lines that would fit in nicely right after that. But then we skipped ahead and started talking about brain for jobs, there was one thing right here. So if you have, especially if you have the ability to edit your notes, then just do slide this in and let me write it before we started talking about brain. Watch my notes. Okay, an important piece of notation in this class is of course, A is the population average, which is mu, A is the Greek letter, actually the Greek letter for m, that is a little m in Greek, and you say mu. And A is equal to the population average, which you calculate by, hopefully you've seen that before, and sum, but we'll use it three times in this course. I'm just gonna be a little casual with it and just say all i's, all i's, maybe all i's better. All i, x i, divided by big N, that is under the last time, so x i, maybe we haven't talked about this, this is just like the i's values you measured, and population. Sum up all the values in the population that you measured divided by N and you get the average, all at nip. In contrast, the sample average, the sample average is essentially the same as the horion, except for you add up all the i's, or all the x i's, all the values, and then you divide by N, it's a little under the sign because the number of items is N. So, we know that. Okay, so these formulas are the same in that you are adding up everything and dividing by N, and the difference is how, the difference is what you know about N. Let me try and explain that. So, what example I think is your heights. So, I could estimate, no, I could calculate the average height in this room, or let's be more ambitious, let's say the average height on an undergrad student board, which are like 20,000 meters. So, I could find everyone and measure all their heights, but that would be very costly, possibly impossible, because maybe some of you don't have your hands. But maybe I can't figure this out. In fact, we often talk or assume that this new value is unknowable. As in, you do not have the ability to calculate it, and you cannot measure everyone in the population. So, instead, you're calculating that by sampling five, 10, 20 of these, and then you calculate this, and you use this and I talked about this a little last class, and I draw that through that diagram with the population and the sample, and this is just a specific way that we do this is we collect the sample, we calculate X bar, which is the sample versus the sample mean, we use this estimate mu, because mu is impossible to know sometimes. And by the way, this is called a program. And that is called a program. I put the camera back over there. So we use statistics to estimate parameters. Camera comes back to me because I've made a couple of changes to this. This can fill up that. Questions about mu, X bar, population, sample, parameters, statistics? We'll keep coming back to these ideas because they're pretty important, but this is like your first case. Okay. This is very good. We did range already. I'll just put the last class. Next. Variation. Finally, co-addition of variation. Okay. Oh. There's something I need to do first. I'm grouping up on space. I'm going to do it on space. Okay. Sorry if it's hard for you to add in the div, but we used to talk about mean absolute deviation first. We don't use it very much, but it is simple and kind of useful, so we should not. Okay. Also known as the SMAT. Okay. Now before we talk about that, we can talk about the pain in the rear of the head. So we are trying to estimate. Trying to estimate. Or capture. How spread out data is. So the range, we talked about last class, was diverse in kind of measuring how spread out data was. We just put the pain as one minus the smallest one, and we said that's the range of the data. But it misses some subtleties. Like it doesn't capture where most data is. If you have a single outlier, then it will push the range to one end or the other, or it will make the range really big. And we're interested in kind of like how spread out people are. So one idea is called the deviation company. Okay. Okay, so the first thing you might think of past range is why don't we calculate how far every point is around the middle and maybe add that up or something. And that will be a measure of how spread out it is. But something happens when you do that. So let's let's reuse the data from diversity. So I'm gonna use five data points. We need their average. Do you think how big their average are? On the first five, I'm not sure either. It should be out of the first one. 9.7. Okay. And then we can calculate the difference between each point and the average and figure out how spread out it is. So we actually write this as point XI minus XR. So I'm gonna take the number of the first column subtract the number of the second column. And then I get like 6.3, I get minus, write this minus that, minus 6.7, minus 4.2, 5.3, 5.2. Okay. And then maybe we could add those up or we could add them to the number of the first column. Okay. And maybe that'll give us a measure of how spread out everything is. So if the average of those five numbers, then we know what happens. What goes into your calculator and you don't see what happens? Every time. So it turns out we have a problem, which is that if you average the distance from each point to the average, it always works out to zero. Which means that average deviation, which sounded like a good idea, turned out to not be a good measure of deviation. Because you can't like, because it always works out to zero. It doesn't matter if spread out the numbers are. The average, the pluses and minuses always cancel each other out. And it doesn't work. Pluses and minuses will cancel. So, instead of doing that, we're like, okay, let's try some other tricks. And the other tricks we try, like how do you get rid of minus signs? One of them is absolute value, which means the mean absolute deviation. And the other way to get rid of minus signs is to square things. So, you go with that. So, go. So, So, I really like the history of this. When we're trying to measure how spread out things are, we want to use how far things are from the outer. We deviate from the mean, from the linear to the minus sign, and we're always going to use statisticians. We came up with two different ideas for that. One is to use the absolute values and can't use that with the mean-actualization. The other one is you can square all the differences. And that leads to fairness. There are pros and cons to both strategies. I can tell you that it turns out that variants have a lot more interesting properties, including that it is differentiable at zero if you care about detail for this. They also add nicely, so that if you have multiple things and you want to add their variances up, adding up the mean-actualization doesn't work properly, but adding their actuates does. And so because of a few technical reasons, we actually prefer to use variants, even though we're experts. For example, it's a step harder, but it's definitely better. I'll just add that note here. One of the things in square brackets, it's more like, it'll be like instructions about where to go with the notes, or like side notes. And this is one of those side notes that you will not be tested on, but it's kind of interesting to know that. And that is a couple of technical reasons. We prefer working with variants. And that is why you learn about mean-actual deviation, but we don't actually do it very much. It doesn't have very good mathematical problems. That did not work. All right. All right. All right. Questions about that digression? Okay, so we need to talk about mean-actual deviation, how to calculate it. It's very easy. We're going to take those values that we calculated in the third column, we're going to get rid of the minus signs, and then do that. And that's it. And that is mean-actual deviation. Okay. Okay. Okay. I think we're doing it again. I'll put the table back. Maybe we'll do it in a different color to show that this part is from before. Okay. And if you want to make your notes nice and succinct, see this part? I'm just copying over there. And now we're taking the absolute value of that instead of the... That's great. Instead of the sine value. And then we're going to take the average. Instead of the sine value. And then the average. Okay. 19.85, right? 11.8, 19.8. Okay. As you know, 3.9. I used to be really good at this. And I'm getting... Well, I'm not as young as I used to be. Okay. 3.9 steps. Really doesn't check my marks. That's a good mark. This has units. And this has a number. And this has a number. Doesn't check my marks. That's a good mark. This has units because this original data, this is from my COVID data, these are my days of symptoms. These are average days of symptoms. The difference is in days. It's divided by a number. So this is still in days of... So the average is 9.7 days with an average dispersion of about 4 days. And you could even... Probably shouldn't do this. If you are kind of being fast and lazy, you can do this. You can do this. If you are kind of being fast and lazy and didn't finish your stats class, you could be like, oh, the typical days of symptoms of COVID are 9.7 plus or minus 3.9 steps. But as we go through the rest of the course, you'll see why that's a very simple and lazy way of talking. So I'm not even going to write it because you're not supposed to do that. So you can get an idea of typical values within 4 days of the average. On average. That some are more than 4, some are less than 4 away, some are about 4 away. This is the average. From the average. I'm writing it. The average distance from the average. Okay, questions about all of this? Okay. How many distance you're from the average? Yeah. My name is Jacob. It's possible. Let me double check. Now I'm going to double check. 6, 3, 6, 7. Let's see. It is better than 10. Oh, something is wrong. Oh, I know what I did. 21? Oh, it's right. So I added these two and I got 11 for some reason. Okay. Since I made mistakes, I'll put it in red. So that if you're following along, you know where my mistake is from. And then forward. Sometimes I'll make mistakes by accident once a day. Other times I do it on purpose. See if I catch the whole class. No, I don't think I'll do that. Good thing. Okay, questions? No, we're good. How many are you? I'm just coming out for a minute. That's so great. I'm not going to lie. So now that we have seen main apps for TVA, the jump to variants is actually very simple. Even though variants sound complicated and look complicated when you look at the formula, what you are actually doing is not much more complicated than this. So instead of making the actual values of these, we square them and we average them, and that's it. That's various. So, we need to differentiate between sample variants and population variants. So if we're dealing with a sample, let's do sample variants. So, sample variants is denoted as S. Calculation in a pre-maple looks like this. So I take my values. And that is an S, not a 5. That's what we call a sample variant. I'll put the values back. 16, 3, 5.5, 13, 11, 9, 11, 9, 11, 1. Then we need to take all those differences and we have to square them. So, we have differences up there. Some of these I know, and some of these I haven't checked. That's 1.6 times 10.8 times 17.6. You all have to learn how to square all the numbers from 1 to 1. I think that top one is 36.39. No, that's not right. 36.6. Let's check. I want to make numbers up. 39.6. Okay, so these numbers are those numbers squared. They go technically. And then S. That's some. I forgot to put the 2 in the box. So we call this S squared. And what is the sum of those numbers? I don't want to do that in my head. It's scary. 114.8. And we can find by n minus 1 instead of n. The reason we divide by n minus 1 instead of n is low cost. Okay. Oh, I felt this one wrong. Okay. So normally when you take averages, you can divide by the number of When you are calculating the variance of a sample, you divide by n minus 1 instead. And the reason has to do with, I've seen a few explanations. One is it's about degrees of freedom, which is a concept we're going to come back to later. And that has to do with we don't actually know what X bar is. So we divide by n minus 1. And we can estimate based on us finding these values from the whole population. And because we don't know what this is, the actual uncertainty in this method, which is the distance to the average, is higher than the index. And so we divide by a smaller number. And so this is called the Vessel's Correction. You don't need to know anything I just said in the last minute. If you're really curious about how this works, the Wikipedia page for Vessel's Correction is pretty good. You don't need to know it, but if you're like, I must understand why it's n minus 1 instead of n, I got a little bit of feedback for Vessel's Correction. So this is 148.8 divided by 4. In contrast, if you know that you are looking at everything that is, if you know that you're looking at every element of the population, the formula is slightly different. If you're dealing with population variance, instead of s squared, we call it sigma squared. When my kids started saying things were sigma, I didn't know it. Because we have been using, you know, dirty math people have been using sigma for a very long time to mean this. So sigma squared, population variance. The formula is almost the same. You can only use it if you know you're dealing with the population. And a simple example of measuring the whole population is trying to understand a classical dog. And it's no great time, but I promise you that when we have breaks, that I might give you something to do during that break. You don't have to do it, because I'm going to do it afterwards. If you're bored and want to try something. Why don't you try and calculate the variance of the outcome of a six-sided die? So you need to find the average of these six numbers, build up this table. You need x bar, you need xi minus x bar squared. And then the formula, sigma squared, is the sum of the values. You don't correct, you devise by taking that. So I'll see you in five minutes at 12.15. If you want something to do, see if you can find something to do. This is a break. Do not account until 12.15. This is an open AID. It's basically like O3 mini, but O3 performance, which is pretty good. Let me show you the notes that I've drawn. Check it out. That was 167. How do you say it right? Take the misses off. That's the same thing. You can go to 12.15. But it's two point five. It's the same thing. No. So that's correct. In case you want to find something. How do you do it? I'm going to be real hell-bent. You can check it out. Just protect it right there. That's what I'm doing. That's the language. That's the job. That's the job. You read YouTube? I read it. I actually have a small assignment for you. Should I make this? I love you. Kevin? Kevin. What was the last week? I have a small assignment. Except for a little mic. What was the mic at? I don't know. He told me he was going to do it. He said don't beat him. What are you talking about bro? What are you talking about bro? Sit down. What are you talking about bro? Oh my god. Let me see it. Holy. Holy. Can you sit down bro? That kind bro. You're triggering my AI. What does it say? It says You don't kill women, you kill women. Oh. Oh. I can't even read. What does that mean? I don't know. I'm asking. What does that water bottle mean? Why is it made out of wood? It's made out of wood. Is that wood? Bro he likes putting it in his mouth. He likes eating wood. What is this guy bro? Bum ass guy. Bum ass guy. The OG Bum. Where the OG Bum? Bro, the Bum with me. Where the Waterloo rejects bro? I forget the Waterloo. Waterloo wants us. Waterloo is going to want us. Waterloo doesn't want you bro. It wants nobody. Yo we're loyal demons bro. Nobody can have us. We're loyal demons bro. We're loyal demons bro. We're loyal demons. Welcome back to my I have started building the table. I now live in the average in my head. It's the sum of the numbers from 1 to 6 divided by 6. It's 12.5. And then I square the differences. 1 and a square, 1 and a half square. I've got those numbers. You'll also notice that some of the waterloo waterloo colleagues noticed this before we got to water. I have put X bar here. But remember the very beginning of class that when you were dealing with the population you called X bar and it's called mu. So it should be a mu. I fixed that. Thank you. And so that is in red because I fixed it. And I filled these out even. And then we add these up. 6, 2 is 8 and 16 and a whole bunch of thirds. Thank you for that. And then we get the 5 divided by 6. Which is 2.91. Great. Another thing that came up quickly during the break I did want to talk about we talked about now. What unit is this in? Or, I mean we didn't talk about what units die. They come out of they were like points, like one point or two points or roughly pips P-I-P. So like there's one pips, two pips, three pips on a die. So this is like 2.9 pips. But is it really in pips? What unit is that in? 28.7. It's not in days anymore. It's in days squared. It's got to make a lot of sense. What is a squared day? And this is in pips squared. So, just in case you haven't seen that workbook or text, those are like talks on the day. So this is in pips squared, that's in days squared. Doesn't make any sense. Just for the camera sake I'm going to put the camera over here and see how I wrote days squared. So, this is where standard deviation comes from. It is unsquare named variance so that we can work with it. So that's the unit to make sense. Population standard deviation. Sigma is equal to the square root of sigma. The whole point of standard deviation is that variance is useful. It has lots of mathematical properties we will run into a couple of them throughout the course. But variance is in squared units, which makes no sense to work with. Or it doesn't make sense to do it in the perfect way. So we unsquare it to get standard deviation which is now that. For example, the standard deviation of the dice square root of 2.91 square root of 2.91 1.71 Let's see the other formulas for variance. Let's see what we can do. You know, I can put it here. It is unsquare deviation. I'll do this. Yeah. I'll do this. You will see this formula in your slides in your text wherever you are like double checking my notes. It is another way to calculate variance and standard deviation. So the inside is variance and you square root it again the standard deviation. And it is different than the table method I used. It can be faster. So you square all the x's add them up. Add up all the x's square them, divide that by n and finish the formula. And you can double check if you apply that formula that you get the same answer. I think this is known as a computational formula. Computational formula. Now you only need to calculate variance by hand a couple more times in your life and then you can turn it back over to your cell. These are the formulas. There is the table method to calculate variance with this method and you square root it again. I will let you practice that moment. Figure out the formula you need. And then we should do this for the sample. So let's do this. The sample standard deviation is an s which is the square root of s squared again back in the original units. The sample is the square root at 28.7 You get 5. something 5.36 and that is the end states. Notice that the standard deviation is close to the mean absolute deviation and they often will be pretty close. They are each a little sensitive to outliers in their own ways. In fact, if there are more outliers the standard deviation will be deeper. But otherwise they tend to be pretty similar. And it also has a computational formula which I think is the same except for you divide by m times 1. And plot the constant error. Add the x squareds. Add the x's and square that. Divide by n. So you only need to know one of the two methods to calculate each of these. You can do it the table way or you can practice the computational formula and do that. You only need to know one of these two ways. And just pick whatever you want to do. You have lots of chances to practice them. And again you can check that if you take this formula and apply it to our numbers that you get. Okay. Okay. So that is all the formulas and introductory information of a very good standard reading. It is at this point where the text wants me to tell you about something called the impuder. Okay. I am sure you have heard of normal curves. It shows up in all sorts of cool places. We're missing the topic of an old curve for a bit. I would be writing the next one, but I'm not sure I'd be doing it. Anyway, here we are. So the Feldcode shows up in all sorts of cool places. It shows up throughout nature. Many things naturally follow Feldgards. Weights, heights, and I'm not even saying of people, but like weights and heights of creatures. People, animals, etc. Within a species, we tend to have a bunch of people, animals, individuals who have average weights and heights. And then there tend to be smaller ones and there tend to be bigger ones. What else have I thought of recently? Like the car speeds on the road. The feature being that there tend to be a bunch of averages. There tend to be a bunch of values in the middle. People who drive a little above the speed limit on average, but not a lot. Then you've got people who speed, and you've got people who go maybe two blocks. So the defining feature of Feldgards is many values close to the average. Close to the average. Some sub-appliers. And it tends to be symmetric. And if it's symmetric, that means that the median, the mode, and the average are all the same. The other place the normal curve shows up is in sample. And this is another one of the important things I'll come back to later. But even if you have something that isn't normally in a city, for example, salaries in a company or household income in a city, when you sample and take sample averages, the sampling averages tend to follow a normal figure. And we'll come back to that. I just want to add a little more here. We'll come back to this in a few weeks. When we come back and learn more about the normal distribution again, we will talk more about this. And I'll mention it now so that the name starts to maybe be heard before. This is due to something called the central limit theorem. So the normal curve shows up in nature. And even when it doesn't show up in nature, when you sample things and start managing your multiple samples, that tends to the normal distribution. So it's both really cool that it shows up by itself and that it also shows up when you apply statistics. So that's pretty interesting. And that's why I was trying to spend some time learning about it. Ironically, student grades tend not to be normal distributed on the road. They have a bit of a bath tank on the road. And I don't think, even though we get asked, oh, do you know this course? We don't know this course. And also, we don't want to. Because in a truth battle, some people's grades get worse. Anyway. Oh, well. Okay. Why are we talking about it now even though I keep saying we're going to come back to this? I'm supposed to illustrate the principle of standard deviation for you on the belt. So just to show how standard deviations manifest themselves in the shapes of these curves, the distribution with a small sigma will have values tightly packed around the average, while distribution with a larger standard deviation will have much less values around here than the one right here. And no matter what the standard deviation is, the empirical rule applies. So I'm going to go back to drawing the curve kind of like its standard shape like that, even though there are narrow versions of it, flatter versions of it. I'm going to draw this like typical one. You got the average. And then there's really neat things happen where most of the values of the curve tend to be within one, two, or three standard deviations of it. And again, it doesn't matter what sigma it is. It doesn't matter whether it's like a skinny one or a flat one. They all have this property. And you can even estimate what proportion are within. I'm going to say 3.9599.7. So an estimated 68 percent of value will fall within one standard deviation. And I can already tell you what that means using some of the numbers we've seen today. We estimated the standard deviation of my days of symptoms is 5.3. If that number is right, it's going to be close to right, it's an estimate. If that number is right, then 68 percent, about two-thirds of patients, are going to have a number of days of symptoms within five, one, up to three days of the average, which is 9.7. And I gave you 20 numbers last week. So I'm going to do a little experiment, I guess, based on the random numbers I gave you. The average was 9.7, right? 9.7 is 5.36, which is 4.3. You can even go back and check the 20 data points from last class. How many of them stay within that range? Two of them are too small. Five of them are too big. So, what's the empirical rule of action? About 65 percent of the data points I gave you last class fall within one standard deviation within this range, based on the values of calculus. The empirical rule said it should be about 68 percent. Good work. The empirical rule continues. The average is 2 and 3 times the standard deviation. The range we use is 95.5 from the second one. And you can extend it to 3 sigma. And it says that almost all, 99.7 percent, should fall within the three standard deviations. And sometime in the next few weeks, I'll show you another difference. Specify a percentage of observations. And that's the wrap up of the chapter. We're also going to come back to what Z-scores are and spend a lot more time in the next couple weeks learning them a little more carefully. For today, in the context of the empirical rule, a Z-score is a measure of how many standard deviations a value is from the average. And we can use our same data over and over again. We have S. So using just our sample data that we've been using for a while, we know X bar, we calculated S as well, but there we also have these differences. So this part of the table, this is all from before, and you already have that when you're calculating deviations. So you can add S, and then the Z-score formula is X i minus X bar, or if it's in a population. Usually we talk about Z with respect to samples, but it's probably good enough. So a Z-score is just a simple calculation that takes the difference and then figures out how many standard deviations you are away. So this is the third column divided by S. The significance of Z-scores, well, we will come back to them and we will use them a lot in future classes. So this is where now for your first point, you just need to know how to calculate. So you can calculate the deviations. So now the next column is just how many standard deviations you are away from the middle. They were reported, and we will stand here for them.