 I can't release them until all the intersections have all the school markers and we just need the Scantrons and so I'm still waiting to hear back or receive the Scantrons. So bear with me. Hopefully you'll get them soon. Other than that, I'm not going to have any announcements to make. Other than I'm going to complete group and teamwork and then I will go into motivation. This weekend is going to be on motivation. You are required to read a case. It's about motivation. It's the application piece. I mean there's no marks or anything but if we don't do it we cannot tell other people. Will it help with the exam if we do do it? No, it's just an application. It's fine. But we can't tell others, right? Just keep it. Bury it. I hope you can trust everyone. I'm having a hard time trusting the men back there. My joke. My joke. But we read it. It was a great case. Oh my god, the application, the motivation piece was so good. It was so good. You took away so much. So let's talk about this. Let's try and finish up group work. So if you may recall, I kind of talked about between different kinds. So I talked about additive, I talked about disjunctive, and I talked about conjunctive tasks. And I apologized. I didn't realize that as I was talking to us last week that the slide deck was not available. So why didn't you say anything? It's okay. It was only, who came to me? It was you, huh, right? That came to me and was like, who came to me and said, oh no, it was you? I was like, why didn't you make it available? And I was like, what? I was talking without it being available and I'm supposed to... Anyway, you had a question. Oh, judging from the terms that you gave, how well did you do? So far so good. I wouldn't say they were bad. I mean, yeah, so far so good. Yeah, so just wait. Just wait. Bear with me. I'm only marked a few. I haven't finished all of it. So yeah, so far so good. Okay. All right. So let's talk about this. So we kind of ended off there. So the question becomes, do bigger teams mean better performance? And let's look at active and disruptive tasks. So theoretically, with these two types of tasks, larger teams should lead to better performance. So remember with additive, the more contributors you have, the more output you have. So like each and every one contributes to something. With destructive, the more people you have, the higher the chance it is for you to find that best performance. But in reality, actual performance does not always lead to better performance. Okay. Now what we see is basically that it could be an equation, which you don't kind of have to know, but it could be that potential performance is there, but then you have to take into consideration the process loss. So what is process loss? And I'll talk about that over the next few slides. But it's basically the efficiencies and challenges that arise when you're working in groups, right? Especially larger ones. And so there's two types of loss that you might see in a group process. The first is known as motivational loss, which I'll talk about in a few minutes. That's where social loafing comes in. And then the other one is coordination loss. And that is basically where you're having difficulty organizing efforts and aligning actions. Okay. So I want you to imagine the fact that there are 500 carpenters and they're trying to build one house. Okay. So theoretically, that's quite productive, right? The larger the number, the better performance, right? But realistically, if you think about it, 500 carpenters working on one house, that is chaos, right? Like that is a lot of people working on one house. So why is it chaos? Well, there might be loss in terms of coordination, like who does what. There might be tool shortages. There might be role confusion. And all of this could actually lead to ineffectiveness, right? So basically, larger groups can offer greater potential, but process losses, what they do is they increase with group size and efficiency on an individual level then declines, right? So that's why you really need to have an optimal team size. Why? Because it balances diversity and skill. Okay. So let's first talk about diversity. So diversity, it really refers to the extent to which team members, they differ from one another, right? So there are two different theories related to diversity in groups. And so what are they? There is, the first really has to do with the fact that diversity is valuable. Okay? So the value and diversity problem solving approach, that basically has to do with the idea that diversity is valuable because different people have different approaches to solving problems, right? And the second one is diversity is detrimental because people are more attracted to those who are like them than those who are not like them. Okay? So you have to kind of consider both of these approaches. You have to consider both types of diversity as well as the length of the time that the team has known each other to understand and to understand the real impact of diversity. Okay. Now, there are two things I want you to note. Okay? So I don't know, like put an asterisk beside this, the surface level diversity and the deep level diversity. Okay? Intense. So what is surface level diversity? So this is diversity that is based on observable attributes. Okay? So things like age, you can know who is young, who is old, gender, female, male, race, right? Who's Caucasian, who's a visible minority. So that surface level, what you see on the surface, okay? This kind of diversity can actually lead to problems initially. Okay? Why? Because people may have very difficult time communicating with one another. Right? So they will have a difficult time communicating with one another or proceed to be different than them. However, this difficulty fades over time. Why? Because people gain experience working with one another. Okay? So just think of it that way. So, you know, I put you into groups. You met your group mates for the first time last week. Right? And so even if you just looked at one another, you knew that there was surface level diversity. Right? In terms of maybe what year of the program you're in, maybe what race you're in, or race you belong to or identify in, what sex you identify with. Right? So there were these observable attributes that were there. Okay? So now when you work together, you will probably face some difficulties. Right? Because you have unique ways of handling things. However, with time, those difficulties will fade because you will start to understand one another. Okay? Okay? Now, the other kind of diversity is known as deep diversity. So what is that? That is basically diversity on attributes that can be inferred with experience. It's more psychological. It's more cognitive. Okay? So differences in terms of knowledge, in terms of skills, in terms of attitudes, values, personalities, these are all deep level diversity. Or deep diversity. Okay? So it's things that are not observable, if that makes sense. Now, these will not cause problems initially. Right? But it can lead to problems over time. Okay? So for example, if we have similar values and whatnot, that doesn't really mean that we will have issues. But later on, we might. There's a possibility that those values could conflict with one another. Right? The chances are pretty rare. If that makes sense. Does that make sense? Okay. So remember that. Okay? So remember what's meant by surface level. Remember what's meant by deep diversity. Which one will lead to problems initially out of the two? Surface level. Okay? All right. Is diversity good or bad? Why? What do you think? Yes? I think it's good because it gives a different point of view. Okay. So different perspectives are brought to the table. What else? Who else? What else? What can happen with different perspectives and stuff? Yes? I feel like there's factors that depend. Like, what if the group size is too big with diversity is not that good of a thing? Because there's too many opinions? Okay. So too many opinions sometimes could be differing opinions that might come in the way. Right? Good. Yes? I think group diversity might be good in the beginning. Like to get a good sense of creativity because everyone might have a different approach. But then maybe when you're trying to decide which group you want to take, it could be a bad thing. Yeah. Because you have different perspectives. Okay. Good. Yes? I think it also depends on what kind of job it is. Like if this is like a factory, we're just working in a room. It doesn't really matter. Yeah. Diversity. It's not. Like it might matter for like a business setting. It could expand into different areas. Sure. Sure. Fair enough. Anyone else? Someone else have their hand up? Oh, sorry. Yes? I think you don't need diversity for simple tasks. It becomes really just like annoying and not efficient when you're just like trying to be diverse with the simple stuff. Okay. Okay. So, Simp, the less complex it is, the better it is to just kind of work on your own. Okay. Good. Anyone else? Yeah? Okay. Good. Okay. So, conflicts and misunderstandings can come. Right? Okay. So, diversity is good or bad? Well, there are pros and cons to it. Right? So, if we were to make the case for the pros for diversity, what we would say is that yes, you're welcome to be diverse. It would bring in more ideas, more perspectives. Right? And because of that, we might see creativity. We might see innovation. We might even see like enhanced problem solving. Right? We might see better decision making. Especially for those complex problems. That was just mentioned. Diversity kind of reflects what's out there though. Right? Like we're seeing a very diverse workforce. So, it does help with things like inclusivity. It does help with things like adaptability. Right? But if we were to talk about the cons, what we would say is that diversity is good. And so, it does help with things like inclusivity. It does help with things like adaptability. Right? But if we were to talk about the cons, we were to make the case from the challenges, then yes, it could lead to conflicts. It could lead to misunderstanding. Especially early on. it could lead to longer decision making, because now we have to hear each and every one's perspective on that particular case. Sometimes it would lead to us having a difficult time coming to a consensus, right? Oops, sorry. And so there are pros and cons to both. So diversity isn't inherently good or bad. It depends really on how it's managed, right? And without the right conditions, diverse teams can outperform the homogeneous ones where there is a lack of diversity in the long run, okay? So group composition really does affect performance, and so there are two types of teams, and so you should also know this in multiple roles, okay? So there's two types. There's homogeneous, which is basically where the members are all similar to one another, and then there's heterogeneous, which is when you have diverse members, okay? So each is effective for different tasks. Homogeneous groups, when are they most useful? Well, for simple or routine tasks. So when you have similar members working on it, there's less debate, there's quick understanding, there is even efficient execution. Tasks that require cooperation. Why? Because there's shared communication styles, and you value, as well as values, which kind of reduce the conflict. Tasks that mainly involve implementation. So basically what you're doing is you're aligning the skills, you're streamlining it with the execution of these known plans. And then tasks that must be done quickly. So this is time-sensitive, faster decisions, less disagreements, okay? So they're best for these kind of situations. Heterogeneous groups, when are they most useful? They're useful for complex or ambiguous tasks, so diverse perspectives. They help us analyze things from all the different angles. Tasks requiring creativity or innovation. So obviously when you have a variety of ideas, you have more problem solving put into play, you have more originality and whatnot. Tasks that mainly involve learning. So exposure to these new views kind of broadens our understanding. And then tasks that don't need speed, right? So that extra time that you get, you lose it for deep thinking for better decisions, okay? So the key takeaway with this particular side is that you choose your group type based on the task that you have, okay? So definitely know that. Now what I wanna do is I kinda wanna shift our attention to how groups work, okay? And so there's, I want you to understand what's meant by group processes. So group processes is a term, like it says on your slide, that reflects the different types of communication, activities, interactions that occur within groups and that contribute to ultimate and goal, okay? So let me tell you what I mean by that in a few minutes. But the other thing that I want you to remember is like group characteristics, especially what we just talked about in terms of team size, in terms of diversity, all affect group processes, okay? And these processes have a strong impact on how effective that particular group is, okay? Now, there's a model that's out there when it comes to group processes. It's known as the input process output model, okay? So this explains how input, so what's an input? Input is basically what the team starts with, okay? It talks about how these inputs, and there could be, so it's basically how a team is shaped, it's operated, it could be done at the individual level, at the team level, at the organizational level. So individual characteristics would be things like skills, personality, experience, team would be like the size, the diversity, and organizational would be things like anything to do with resources that are available to you, or maybe even just the characteristics of the task, okay? So input basically is transformed through the process. So the process is basically referring to, in a nutshell, how the team actually works together, okay? To produce outputs, which in our case would be performance, okay, or the results are output. So it's basically saying, how does, what the team starts with, so the resources, the team composition, the individual characteristics, how do they influence how a team functions, which has to do with the processes, and how does that then come or translate into the results or outcomes, or the outputs that we're interested in, okay? Which in our case would be job performance. So when it comes to processes, remember these are interactions and activities within a group. So what are we referring to? We're referring to things like communication, we're referring to things like coordination, we're referring to things like decision making, we're referring to things like conflict resolution, we're referring to things like cohesion and trust building, okay? So processes, they determine how effectively the team uses it for its output. And remember what output is. It's like the result or the outcome of the team's work, right? So in this particular slide, I had performance, which is like the quality of the quantity of work, but you can have anything. You can have team satisfaction, you could have learning growth, you could have innovation, any result or outcome that you are interested in. That output, that outcome is basically whether or not the team's efforts are successful or not. Okay? So let's talk about the team processes. So sometimes the nature of the team, what it does or the team's process results in a game, which is known as process game, okay? So in this situation, what ends up happening is that you're getting more from the team than you would have expected according to the capabilities of the individual members, okay? So it's also sometimes known as synergy, okay? So the polar opposite of that is process loss, which means you're getting less from the team than you would have expected based on the capabilities of the individual's members. So the question really becomes, what causes process loss? What causes process gain? So let's start with process loss. So I've actually given you the formal definition here. So let's focus on process loss, which is in red. Okay, so you should definitely take note of this so understand what's meant by process loss. So let me ask you a question, okay? For those who are, like, who play a sport, okay? Do you sometimes feel that you are more than the sum of the parts, right? Do you sometimes feel when you're in, how do you feel in a sports team? Is everyone contributing? No. So then what is it? But you know they're capable of it. They're simply not contributing, right? There could be a couple of different reasons why they're not contributing, but that is what is meant by process loss, okay? So each member has a capability that they are able to demonstrate, but for whatever reason they're not doing it, okay? So I'm sure in that case you felt like you were, you know, you fell below expectations, right, and whatnot. But in some cases the whole team works really well together, right? Does that make sense? Are we understanding what's meant by process loss? Or no? All right, one of the factors that causes this process loss is the fact that members, they need to work not only to accomplish their own tasks, but also coordinate their activities with the activities of their teammates, okay? So just think about the groups that you have worked for so far in your university degree. These groups, you have, oftentimes what happens is this, you divvy up the work, right? Usually that's what happens. That's usually what people do when they're like, oh, it's a group project, let's divvy up the work, okay? So the group project is one where, you know, you all have to accomplish your own tasks, but sometimes there's a lack of coordination. Sometimes someone doesn't show up, they don't know what's being allocated to them, or sometimes people misunderstand what was divvied up and they end up doing something that you were supposed to do, okay? So coordination, that's what's meant by it. So coordination is necessary, but it kind of results, it can result in coordination loss because it consumes time, it consumes energy that could otherwise be devoted to the task activity, okay? That's what's meant by coordination loss. Motivation loss is the second force that causes process loss. So what happens here is that, it's referring to the loss in team productivity that occurs when the team members do not work as hard as they should, okay? So process loss in a nutshell is basically where you're getting less from the team than expected, okay? So five of you are in a group, so I'm expecting it to be a stellar group presentation, right, but that might not be the case. That might not be the case, and for two reasons, there are two causes. One could be simply that you were not able to coordinate well enough. That's what's meant by coordination loss. And the second is that some members just do not put in the work. They're not motivated enough, that's the motivational loss. Does that make sense? Okay, all right. So let's talk about motivational loss for a minute. So hint, hint, you should know this. So this slide is on social boating, okay? So I was asked this question last week. What is social boating, okay? So when we think of groups, we automatically assume that say if there are five people working together, then we should be able to get five times as much work done than one person alone, okay? Five people in a group, you should get the work five times more, like it should be better five times more than one person alone. But what might occur is social loafing. Social loafing is this tendency that people have to kind of withhold their physical, their intellectual effect when they're performing a group task, okay? So what does that mean in another way? So there's always someone in that group who isn't pulling his or her weight, okay? And the idea behind social loafing is what you see over here. Oh, sorry, what you see over here. Which is that the more people who contribute to a task, typically it's one that we're talking about additive, right? So the more people that contribute to a task, the less each individual's contribution would be. Does that make sense? So let me give you an example, okay? And I think the best example is one that's provided by this study, but I'll also give you a layman example in a few minutes. So this study was done by Ingram and Colleagues, and it was done in 1974. It's a classic demonstration of social loafing, okay? So remember, social loafing in layman terms, it's a tendency for individuals to put in less effort when they believe that they are part of a group, okay? So what happened in this experiment? So in this experiment, the participants were blindfolded, okay, and they were asked to pull a rope, okay? As hard as they could. So they kind of thought that they were having this like tug of war with others. In reality, they were just pulling this rope alone, okay? So what did they find? They found that participants who actually thought that they had two to five people behind them, they pulled the rope about 18% with less force than when they were led to believe that they were pulling the rope, okay? So basically, in some cases, they were told that you're pulling this rope alone, so they put in more force to pull in that rope. But when they were told, another group was told that you have two to five people behind you, they put in less force in pulling that rope. Okay, so this kind of shows us that individual effort can actually decrease in group settings when people feel less personally accountable or they assume others will pick up the slack. Okay, so that's a classic example, but we can talk about it in our group settings as well, the ones that you've participated. I'm sure that there has been a time so far, maybe you'll experience it in the four years in university, where you're assigned to a team and everyone is putting in their hard work, but there's always that one person who isn't. Okay, because they're like, everyone else is doing it, why should I? That is social opening. Does that make sense? So, and you notice it more with larger groups. If it was a group of 10 people, for example, right? What tends to happen? At least five of you will say something or another. The other five will be like, oh, why should I even say something? Let the other people do it. I see this all the time when I split groups into two or debates. It's like a big group and there's a few dominating individuals that are leading the discussion and then the others are just like, oh, okay. I'm not gonna say anything. That's social opening. So how can we, so do we understand social opening? Yeah, good, so we'll know the definition, which is on here. We will, I don't know if I asked you to define this experiment, I don't think I did. I asked you to give me media layman example. Maybe you can bring that up anyway. But how do we go about counteracting the social opening? So to avoid such kind of process loss, research suggests that you do a couple of different things. So first is you make individual performance more visible. So keep the group small and then you post performance levels. So keep the group small. So when there's three people to a group, you know that those three people are going to participate. But when there's 10, you know that there are gonna be some people who are not going to. The other one would be specialized tasks. That kind of means you give each person a unique task to do. And then goal setting for each individual would be sort of like saying, okay, this is a task that you have to do and this is how you have to go about accomplishing it. Increase performance feedback. So make it aware of how, especially in the work setting, let people know how they're performing. Make sure the work is interesting. So if the work is intrinsically motivating, social loathing won't occur. So what that means is if you're motivated for personal reasons, social loathing won't occur. But there are other things that you can do too. You can make people feel like what they're doing is meaningful, that their inputs are needed for group success. But you can also go about rewarding group rewards. Or rewarding group performance. So when you say that the group's performance is contingent on each and every individual and how they do, and you reward them, that would also counteract social loathing. Okay, does that make sense? Okay. Now, a question that's often asked is, is social loathing universal? So this particular thing, what this shows you is it kind of talks about collectivistic and individualistic. So in collectivistic cultures, which is where social networks are defined, they're closely knit communities, like China and Israel, people perform better as members of groups than they do alone. And in individualistic cultures, which is more so you're focusing on yourself and not so much as being part of a community since the United States, people perform better alone than in groups. Why? Because social loathing tends to occur. Okay. Does that make sense? So is it universal? Not necessarily. It really depends on the country that we're talking about or the society that we're talking about. But in the ones that we belong to, yes, it can occur. Okay. All right, what are some other ways? So social loathing is one. The other one is groupthink. So basically what happens here is it's a phenomenon where group members, they prioritize harmony and consensus over basically the critical evaluation of alternatives leading to flawed decision-making. So, you know, let me give you an example, okay? So in a class, I basically ask students to develop or I've tasked them with developing a business proposal. Okay? So if team members, they might actually avoid giving different opinions about a risk or they might avoid giving opinions about a risky strategy to maintain harmony, right? And they may, as a result, overlook those potential pitfalls and make a flawed decision. So groupthink is where conformity pressures really comes into place, right? So if four out of five of you are saying one thing, then you're gonna try to avoid putting out your opinion because you kinda wanna just keep the harmony. That's what groupthink is all about. Group polarization is basically the tendency for group discussion to enhance the initial positions of individual group members. And so then what happens is you see more extreme decisions or opinions, okay? So say there's a debate, right, in class and it's on a controversial business ethics topic. So people, what they might have is like their initial views once, right? But it gives them like a chance to find a school. And so you get all these people to sit together and what might happen is through these discussions, these initial points become so extreme, right? They may become exaggerated. Kind of, and then what will happen is you are reinforcing each other's arguments and it leads to kind of like polarized opinions within the class. Does that make sense? So either you exaggerate the initial position of the group or you don't, but if you do, that's known as group polarization, okay? So given a debate, there might be someone that says, I completely agree with it. Now everyone else agrees with it, even though it might not be something to agree upon. That's basically what group polarization is referring to. Does that make sense? Okay, let's talk about process gains. So remember you're getting more from the team than you would expect according to the capabilities of the individual members. And there are various different ways in which you can increase process gain or synergy, right? I kind of just wanna talk about team states, which are the specific types of feelings and thoughts that kind of go in the minds of the team members because of their experience working together. And so there are a number of different ways in which you can have team states. There are norms, there are status symbols, and then there's potency, okay? And so I am just gonna leave it at that. I'm not really going to go into it in that much detail. I provided you with the definition, but norms can lead to process gains. So norms are generally agreed upon informal rules that guide group members' behaviors. So these are not formal, nor are they written rules, but they regulate behavior through shared experiences over time, okay? So for example, a team might form a norm about how hard people should work, right? So setting this norm for working hard and all its related behaviors go with what you really don't need to know right now, but it's called prescriptive norm, right? It's a norm that dictates behavior on how it should be performed. But you can also come up with norms on how things shouldn't go. Then there's status symbols. These kind of keep the group functioning effectively and orderly. It has to do with the social position or rank that's given to group and group members. So there are formal status symbols, like big offices, fancy job titles, reserved parking spots, and the status actually plays a big role in determining the influence within an organization. So people with high status, they are said to have more respect, have more of an impact when it comes to important decisions that are being made. And so we actually see them doing better in a team. And then potency refers to the degree to which members believe that the group can be effective across a variety of situation and tasks. When a team has high potency, members are confident that their teams can actually perform well. And as a consequence, they focus more on their energy on achieving those team goals. When it has low potency, they're not so confident about how they're going to be doing the team. And so they begin to question the team's goals as well as one another. And then there's mental mode and there's cohesiveness as well. I think I want to focus on cohesiveness. Cohesiveness is a determinant of group functioning. Cohesiveness is basically central to team structure because essentially what it is is the strength of the team member's desire to remain a member of the team. So in very cohesive teams, what we see is that members like each other, they like working together, they work together towards meeting the team goals. And non-cohesive teams, members don't like each other. They don't get along, they may be less interested in their own, or more interested in their personal interests. So cohesiveness is good, right? But we really do want people to like each other. We want them to get along with each other. We want them to work towards that common goal. But it can lead to group thinking, which I've already described, right? They might conform to the pressures. So to leverage the benefits of cohesion, groups have to acknowledge that cohesion can be detrimental and someone has to play the devil's advocate in those cohesive teams, okay? And that's that. Did we, I went through it so fast, but any questions on group or team processes? No, okay. Now let's talk about motivation, okay? So motivation is broken into two parts. Okay, so let's talk about motivation. So I'm gonna first start off with the definition of motivation, and then I'm gonna talk about the theories of work motivation, and I've kind of broken them down into content as well as process. So let's talk about what is meant by motivation. So before I do that, I think it is very important for you to watch this clip. If it will actually work. I think it'll work. Okay. Okay. Would you walk through a typical day for you? Yeah. Well, I generally come in at least 15 minutes late. I use the side door, that way one bird can't see me. And after that, I just sort of space out for about an hour. I do that for probably another hour after lunch. I'm saying a given week, I probably only do about 15 minutes of real actual work. Peter, would you be a bit sport and indulge us and just tell us a little more? Oh yeah. Let me tell you something about TPS reports. The thing is Bob, it's not that I'm lazy. It's that I just don't care. Don't care? It's a problem of motivation, all right? Now if I work my ass off and then it takes ships a few extra units, I don't see another dime. So where's the motivation? Maybe something else, Bob. I have eight different bosses right now. A big one? Eight bosses. Eight, Bob. So that means that when I make a mistake, I have eight different people coming by to tell me about. That's my only real motivation is not to be hassled. That's the fear of losing my job, but you know Bob, that'll only make someone work just hard enough not to get fired. Would you bear with me for just a second? Okay. What if, and believe me, it's just under a month's panic, y'all, what if you were offered some kind of a stock option equity sharing program? Would that do anything for you? I don't know, I guess. Listen, I'm gonna go. It's been really nice talking to both of you guys. Absolutely. The pleasure is all on this side, and they will trust me. Good luck with your layoffs, all right? I hope your firings go really well. Excellent, great. Wow. Okay, so that clip is from the office space. Have we had the opportunity to watch that movie? It's a great movie. It's an old movie, but it's a great movie, and it brings a lot of the OB concepts. Maybe I'll assign it to someone if I know what to locate it on. Me too. But basically, in that clip, this gentleman was brought in because they were gonna fire him. Okay? But he kind of like, he talked his way out of getting fired. But what we see from that clip is motivation, right? So motivation, as he described it, is basically one of the main predictors of employee performance, right? It's not the key factor, right? So it's very, very important. It is very critical for organization, and it can, excuse me, lead to very negative outcomes or consequences if employees are not motivated. And you kind of saw that in that clip, okay? So I wanna start off with a definition. So unfortunately, when it comes to motivation, the definition is like easier said than done, okay? There is no real accepted definition of what motivation is. But in the work context, when we say someone is motivated, what we are really saying is that they're working towards some goal. Okay? So a definition that is as good as any, is that motivation represents the extent to which persistent effort is directed towards a goal. Okay? So basically, it is referring to the forces, either internal or external to a person, that gives rise to enthusiasm and persistence in order to pursue a particular course of action, okay? Now, it's important to emphasize a few things. So the first is that motivation is an inferred construct. What that means is we cannot observe it directly, okay? Instead, we infer its presence, okay? And that's based on behavior. How persistent is someone? How engaged is someone? How is their performance? That kind of tells us how motivated someone is. But it's not something that I can see, right? Based on the behavior right now, I can see that you are not motivated enough to listen to me lecture, right? Simple as that. But if I was to ask questions, right, you were to answer, I can say, oh yeah, they're motivated. Does that make sense? That's what's meant by the first. It's an inferred construct. The second is that it's considered to be a intervening variable. What that means is it explains how some stimulus leads to a behavior, okay? A stimulus might be, I don't know, like a challenge, right? It results in a behavioral response, right? So the more challenging work you are, the better performance you demonstrate. Why? Because you're more motivated. So it kind of comes in between. That's what an intervening variable really is referring to. Okay? So without motivation, the link between the stimulus and the behavior will be incomplete. And then it's not stable, nor is it permanent, okay? It can fluctuate over time. And it's sensitive to a number of things. Context is one of them, right? So learning is more stable, right? It's more permanent. It can result in a number of different things. Motivation, not so much. Does that make sense? You might be motivated today, but you might be not motivated tomorrow, okay? So do we remember how this definition is? Yeah, okay. Now let's talk about the parts that go into motivation. So this you should definitely know. Paintings, okay? So what are the three parts of motivation? The first is effort. So effort manifests itself differently in different jobs, right? But it's basically how, or it refers to the extent to which someone works diligently. So effort is how much, okay? So an athlete who runs until she collapses is putting forth a great deal of effort, right? Maybe a little too much, right? Similarly, a manager who works late into the night is putting in a great deal of effort, right? Or someone who spends 16 hours a day working for a job is also putting in great effort. Someone who stays up until 2 a.m. marketing for 18 group projects is also putting in a lot of effort. Then she makes mistakes. Like she gets the organization mixed up and the students come saying, oh, we were looking at this organization, but you put RBC down. And I'm like, oh, just because I was working so late at night trying to do your work or market. So that's the first. Effort is how much? How much is someone working diligently, okay? Persistence is the second part. What is persistence? So persistence is related to effort in that it represents the extent to which one applies the effort consistently, okay? Okay, so for how long is that effort going? Okay, so an athlete who exerts a lot of effort until they collapse, but then gets up and says, I'm not ever doing that again, right? Is not exhibiting a lot of persistence. They've given up. Does that make sense, right? So we would say they're not very motivated. But someone who collapses gets up and says, all right, I'm going at it again. I'm gonna try and run this 5K marathon is putting in that persistence, right? A rejection letter, a job seeker who receives one rejection letter from a potential employer and then stops looking for work altogether is not persistent. A job seeker who gets a rejection letter but says, ah, I'm gonna keep on applying, that's persistence right there. Does that make sense? So persistence, it refers to how much does one put in the effort consistently? How long are they going at it, okay? And then the third characteristic of motivation is that it contains the direction in which one channels persistent effort, okay? So when we're talking about organizations, the direction really has to do with what helps the organization reach its goals, right? So say there's a manager, okay? And if that manager works late every night, right? What is happening here? They're definitely showing the effort and it's also persistent. But if they're working on minor issues that have nothing to do with organizational goals, the bigger core goals, then we would say that that person doesn't have the direction and isn't motivated. Does that make sense? So there's basically three characteristics to motivation. There's effort, which is how much are you putting in? What is the extent to which someone is working diligently? Okay, there's persistence, which it refers to how long is the effort, right? To what extent does one apply the effort consistently? And then there's direction, which really has to do with where am I channeling this persistent effort? So those are the three characteristics of motivation. We'll understand that for the test. Yeah? Okay, good. All right, let me do an exercise. Let me get you to do some talking. So who's worked for someone else? Show up here. Who's worked for themselves? A few of you have. Okay, okay. For those who work both, what was the difference? When I've worked for myself, I've found myself working harder, because it's my own personal goal. And I see more benefit from working for myself compared to working for a company or something like that. Because there's deadlines and stuff like that, and you're working for a manager or the company's goals, per se. So of course I'm gonna work harder for what I work for. Okay, so it resonated more with you if you're working harder. Okay, good, yeah. I was more motivated to work for myself, mainly more because I can actually see where my work is going. Okay, all right. I physically see the difference, compared to in a big corporation or someone else's party, just if you know how you're working and what you're doing. Good, okay, good. Yes? When I'm working for someone else, I feel like I have to do it to their liking. It's temptation, yeah. Like what has to be done to their liking as compared to, I have my own standards, obviously. But sometimes you don't know exactly what someone else wants from you. Okay. So you can try and communicate as well as they can, but not everyone is the best at communicating. So you have to worry about, oh, will they like this versus that? Okay, sorry. So it's a bit of a guess as to what someone else wants from you versus what you're doing for yourself. Good. So when you're working for yourself, kind of feel like you always have to work with something else you can do when you're working for someone there's like guidelines on what you have to do. Okay, all right, so you have to have all of your own ways. Yeah. I feel like when you work for someone else, it feels more safe, so you don't have to like try to bother them. I like a safety net. And they're paid at a very low list. So you might as well not just put the maximum effort. Okay. You might feel like, you don't want to be an effort, just to get paid and leave. Okay, sure. Fair enough. If you work for yourself, there's that pressure of like, you don't have to like actually do this. Right? Yeah. Makes sense. Okay. So we all obviously know which one's more motivating for you versus someone else, right? How about others? Which one do you think is more motivating and why? We know here, in faith, right? You kind of know the guidelines that you're working with or the expectations. Yes. I think it can be more motivating to work for yourself because you're doing it, like you're more passionate about it. You can have more versus like, you can be passionate about your job or you're employed by someone too, but a lot of times you're not necessarily doing exactly what you want. So you're not passionate about it because it's not, you're not as passionate about it. Okay. So passion comes into play when you're working for yourself. Anyone else? Yes, I'm. I feel like for when you're working for someone else, but like it's because of, like it's based off a recommendation or something they've heard about you. Like for example, like I've worked things where they took me on for specific things as they heard so and so. So then I have like a standard for what I want to do. So I actually tend to be more motivated there because I want to live up to their expectations. Okay, sure. Okay, so you want to live up to their expectations. Okay, anyone else? Yes. I need a lot more freedom when you're working for yourself rather than for someone else. All right, so there's more autonomy, more freedom when you're working for yourself. Okay, why do you think managers should care about motivation in the first place? Why do we care? Yes. Because if an employee's not motivated, quality of their work is not gonna be good. Okay, good, all right. So if they're not motivated, the quality is not gonna be good, right? So motivating, motivating. Motivation is a variable that would lead to a number of different outcomes. Why you girls laughing? Yes. They keep like, they're gonna say, why? Because they're coughing. They just keep coughing, okay. All right, okay, sure. I was like, is it because I'm walking barefoot? You can see how I have my walking barefoot. I was like, is it because I'm barefoot? They're like, oh, yeah, it's dirty, don't worry. I was in the shower when I got home. All right. Anyway, okay. So why should they care? Okay, so it could lead to the outcomes that are of interest to us. What else? All right, let's do thinking, Mike. Why? Yes. I mean, just like the care for the motivation that you just brought us. Yeah. They don't have motivation, they'll feel less effort, or they'll do work that doesn't really benefit the organization. Good. So just do things that don't really help at all. Exactly, right? People will not enjoy coming to work. They will not perform better. Your organizational goals will not be met, right? So motivation is a key construct. And like I started off, it is one of, if not the only one that leads to job performance, right? Okay, now the reason why I asked you is it better, what's more motivating? Is it for others or for yourself? Was kind of making you think about motivation and what you value the most. Okay? So that's where I wanna bring in intrinsic and extrinsic motivation. So everyone values things differently. Okay? And so there are types of motivators that various theories consider. There's intrinsic motivators and then there's extrinsic motivators. Okay? So intrinsic motivation is a personal, internal desire to do something such as interest or challenge or personal satisfaction. Okay? Were you out at the bar? Were you at night? What's going on? Okay. So it's like really two weeks. Okay, that's okay. All right, that's fine. And so intrinsic motivation, it comes from within. Okay? So what's within us? It would be our interest, right? Our values, the desire to be challenged. The desire, I heard someone say meaningful, right? Like it's more meaningful, I don't know who it was, I'm really sorry, but someone had said when you're working for yourself, you kind of are doing work that's more meaningful. Something like that, right? So that's all intrinsic motivation. Okay? Extrinsic motivation, it comes from outside the person. Right? So what are some extrinsic motivators? Well, it could be cash, it could be bonuses, it could be, okay, not cash, but pay. Pay, bonuses, other tangible rewards. Okay? So does that make sense? So ask yourself this. What motivates you to come to class? What motivates you to come to class? What is it? Huh? Pass the course. Pass the course, okay, is that intrinsic or extrinsic? Great, is it intrinsic or extrinsic? Extrinsic. Extrinsic, right? What else, so you want to pass the course, what else? Is there anyone that comes just because they want to know more about OV? Yeah. Participation marks? Huh? Participation marks. Participation marks, is that intrinsic or extrinsic? Extrinsic. Extrinsic, okay. Anyone else? Have you hit the desire to pass kind of intrinsic because it's like how we feel about passing the course? Yeah, but why do you want to pass? No, I think the knowledge, for example, that you will attain from this particular course, that's intrinsic, right? If it's to see Santa every day, that's intrinsic. So basically, extrinsic would be anything that is outside of your control. Intrinsic would be more so within you, if that makes sense, okay? It's fine, I'm not disappointed that you're all saying it's because I need to pass this course, I need to get this degree, and the requirement, blah, blah, blah, blah, I need to get the grades, sure, right? But I think when you go to graduate school, for example, that's where intrinsic motivation will come into place, right? I mean, I think that's where you're like, oh, I want this kind of career for myself, and so I'm gonna learn this. I didn't go into graduate studies, I think I don't know, I teach so many classes, I don't know which class I taught this to, but I didn't go into doing a PhD because of the money that I would be making. I went in because learning is something that I enjoy. And I continue doing that even today, right? I'm constantly learning. Like I've signed up for an AI course, I'm gonna learn machine learning now. Imagine that. I have no squat, and I'm like, yeah, sure, sign me up, okay? So that's intrinsic motivation, okay? Was yours going to be intrinsic motivation? Yeah, I just wasn't sure, because would it become a class because you paid for it, would that be intrinsic or extrinsic? Extrinsic, extrinsic, yeah, you're trying to get into values, that's extrinsic, okay? All right, so different pieces, right, different motivators. Extrinsic motivators, as you can imagine, it does not have a long lasting impact, although it works initially, okay? So think about it this way. You're interested in grades right now, but when you get to my age, are you really going to be interested in how you did in your undergrad? No one's gonna ask you for a transcript. No one's gonna ask, they're gonna be like, where's your degree, can you show me that degree? Like that's all I was asked, can you show me your degree? I was like, yeah, here, here it is, right? But no one cares, no one cares about the grades. So right now they're good, right? Because that will get you out of probation, and that will get you from not failing this course and repeating it in the summer. If any of you are repeating it in the summer, I'm gonna shoot myself. Okay, so like, I want you, because I taught the course in the summer, and I was like, I don't know, man, I'm never teaching OB in the summer ever again, yes. What if you're just very passionate to learn OB again? Yes, that is intrinsic motivation. Your passion is intrinsic motivation. So is it fine to take summer school then, of OB? No, because you're taking it now, so try not to fail, okay, right? There's a lot of pressure on you, but you won't, you won't fail, I'm gonna help you. I'm gonna help you, get there. I want everyone to pass, okay? But I'm gonna shoot myself in any of my students for the summer course. Okay, anyway, so it works initially. Intrinsic motivation works initially, but in the long run, not so much, okay? In extrinsic motivation, it also works on simple tasks, but not so much on creative or challenging tasks, right? Creativity, challenge, those are more intrinsic motivators, okay? Sometimes people see extrinsic rewards as symbols of success, but it's not always bad, right? But both kinds of these motivators are there, okay? And both work in order to get us to be motivated, okay? Does that make sense? Okay, so we'll remember the distinction between intrinsic and extrinsic, right? Now let's talk about motivational theories, and there are many of them. These can be broadly classified into two different categories. There's content theories, and then there's process theories. So content theories, they give, they actually focus on the needs that must be met to motivate individuals, okay? So they focus on what motivates someone, okay? Process theories of motivation, they kind of describe individual motivation as being controlled by external forces, like external environmental forces. So they kind of focus on how motivation occurs, okay? What factors direct them, what factors sustain them, okay? So content theory focuses on the what, process theory focuses on how, okay? Content theory focuses on the needs that need to be met, process theory focuses on the process. How does motivation actually unfold, okay? So let's talk about the different theories. So let's first talk about content theories, okay? So these theories are basically saying that there are different kinds of needs that people want to satisfy, okay? And so what are needs? Needs in a nutshell are like these cognitive groupings or their cluster of outcomes that are viewed as having critical psychological or physiological consequences, okay? So the extent to which, as well as the ways in which a person's strongest needs are met or not met, actually affect his or her behavior on the job. And so the best way to focus on understanding people's needs are Madlow's Hierarchy, ERG Theory, McClam's Theory of Needs, and Self-Determination Theory, okay? So let me first talk about Madlow's Hierarchy. We've probably all heard about this, right? So this is one of the popular need theories, okay? It was proposed by Abraham Madlow, and so basically what he said is that we have several needs. Okay? And they can be boiled down to five specific categories. There's physiological needs, safety needs, love and belonging needs, esteem needs, and then self-actualization, okay? So let me talk a little bit more about this. So what happens, what are the physiological needs? These are the needs for survival. So you need food, you need water to survive, right? Within organizations, where would we see physiological needs? Well, we'll probably see them at the level of pay, the compensation that you receive, okay? Safety needs, these are needs for self-preservation. So it's protection from physiological and psychological harm. So in our jobs, like safe working conditions, job security, these are safety needs, okay? Love and belonging is sometimes also known as social needs. So this refers to needs for affiliation, for friendship, to kind of have a sense of belonging, okay? To be accepted by others. So at work, this might be met by having friendly and supportive workers, possibly opportunities for teamwork and social work. There's esteem needs, so what that refers to is the need to be respected, to be recognized for your efforts, to gain approval of others. So it really has to do with status and recognition. So within the organization, basically, we'd be met by having things like promotions, right? Or maybe receiving awards and so forth. And then self-actualization is to reach the highest potential, okay? To be all that you can be. So this is actually a self-fulfilling drive to achieve your best, okay? So within an organization, this can involve basically having like a challenging job with a high potential for creativity and growth with lots of autonomy, okay? So according to Maslow, we have these five needs, okay? And these needs can be arranged in a hierarchy from basic needs, which would be the physiological needs, to higher order needs, which would be the self-actualization needs, okay? So this pyramid is kind of what you see when it comes to Maslow's hierarchy of needs. So what this pyramid shape, what this pyramid shows, is actually Maslow's view of how many people in our society have those needs. Okay, or who have their needs met. So we have very few people who, if you look at the pyramid, are at the self-actualization, but far more that are getting their physiological needs met. Does that make sense? Okay, all right. Now, there are two assumptions in Maslow's theory. The first is prepotency. So what that means is that the lowest unsatisfied need becomes the most powerful influence on behavior, okay? A higher order need will only become activated when a lower order need is satisfied, okay? So for example, let's go back to here. A physiological need would be hunger, like food, right? So if I'm hungry, I'm not gonna be thinking about my safety needs, nor am I thinking about my love of belonging needs, nor am I thinking about the esteem needs, nor am I thinking about the self-actualization needs. I'm thinking about the lowest unsatisfied need, which at that moment is physiological need, okay? So according to this theory, only one need is, people are motivated with only one need at any given point, and that is their lowest unsatisfied need. The second thing is that the order of the needs are invariant, so what that means is, it actually happens in this hierarchy, okay? So people kind of have to satisfy their needs according to this hierarchy. You have to first satisfy your physiological needs, then you have to satisfy your safety needs, then you have to satisfy your love and belonging needs, then you have to satisfy your esteem needs, then you have to satisfy your self-actualization needs. Does that make sense? Okay, now, it seems like a very straightforward theory, right? And that's why it's quite popular in management press, especially with management consultants and whatnot, but there's a problem with this theory. The problem is that it hasn't yielded empirical evidence to support the theory. So the very first thing that, there's little evidence to show that these needs are invariably organized in that particular order that you just saw. Different people can experience different needs in different orders. For example, an artist can go hungry to buy paint, right? Second is that there is no evidence for the idea of prepotency. So there is no idea of this lowest unsatisfied need. Okay? So there were two assumptions, and evidence does not show those two assumptions. Okay? Regardless of the specifics, what is it that Maslow's hierarchy of needs shows us? It shows us that we actually have needs. Whether they occur in that particular order, no. Right? Whether it occurs that one needs to be met before the other, no. They can be working in conjunction with one another. Okay, does that make sense? That's Maslow's hierarchy. Do I wanna go into this? Okay, I'm gonna stop here, but I will pick it up on Wednesday. Oh my God, I have so many.