 This is Boolean exhibition. And then we talked about names. This is X, this is Y. Then before the inverter, what do I have? I have XY. After the inverter, I have XY bar. We will start today with the NOR gate. This is the NOR gate. So it is OR, and then I got the inverter. OR, and then I got the inverter. So the truth table will be similar to OR, but I inverted. So 0 or 0 is 0, 0 or 1 is 1, 1 or 0 is 1, 1 or 1 is 1. So I have 0, 1, 1, 1, and then I inverted. I inverted the output, so it will become 1, 0, 0, 0. This is the truth table for NOR. The truth table for NOR with two inputs. Last time I talked about a very important thing, which is called the divergence theorem. X, Y bar equal X bar plus Y bar. So I distribute the bar, and I invert the multiplication into addition, into plus. How to prove that? How to prove that X, Y bar equal X bar plus Y bar? The simplest way to prove any expression is to come to the truth table. This is X, this is Y. What are all possible combinations? This is all possible combinations. And then what is X, Y? 0, 0, 0, 1. What is X, Y bar? 1, 1, 1, 0. What is X bar and what is Y bar? X bar will be 1, 1, 0, 0. What is Y bar? 1, 0, 1, 0. What is X bar plus Y bar? 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0. This is the same as this one, and then this is the proof. This is the proof. So again, what is today's lecture? We'll start with the NOR gate. The NOR gate is also universal. Universal means I can replicate or design not and over. Okay? So if I want to design not, then I will just connect those angles. Because this is X, Y. 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1. For the X, for the NOR gate, NOR gate. For the OR 0, 1, 1, 1. NOR 1, 0, 0, 0. Now, when I wrote X and Y together, that means that I have these two cases. Y equal X, Y equal X. So when the input is X, what is the output? 1. When the input is 0, output 1. When the input is 1, output is 0. So this is an inverter. What about OR gate? If I connect another NOR here, I have here X, Y. X plus Y bar, then I have X plus Y. This is how to form OR. This is OR gate. Using two NOR gates. This one, I have here X plus Y. What is left? And the gate. What is left is and the gate. So if I have this gate, this gate, this is NOR, this is NOR, and another NOR. What do I have here? Y. What do I have here? Y bar. So the output is X bar plus Y bar, right? Bar. Which is X bar bar dot Y bar bar, which is X, Y. Which means that I have here and the gate. So I have belt and gate, not gate, and also OR gate, OR gate, and gate, not gate. So this means that the NOR gate is universal. The NOR gate is universal gate. Can we have? Can we have? Can we have? Can we have? Can we have? Can we have? I mean A. NOR B. 1 or 0 is 1, and then I invert it. have zero. Zero or zero will be zero. Then inverters, they are one. And so on. So I can give you the input and ask you about what is the output. Right? And as we did before, can I give you A and X and ask about B? Yes. But there may be more than one answer. Okay. So I will give you three inputs. Three inputs. Then I will do all three inputs and then I invert it. One plus zero plus zero is one. I invert it. One because I have here the circle. Then it becomes zero. One plus one plus zero is one. Inverted and becomes zero. And so on. So this is the timing diagram. This three inputs. Nor is equivalent to negative. See? Negative and have. How to do zero is negative and? So what is the question again? I have more. And I want to know that it is negative and. So if I have here X, Y, and I will give you X, Y. So for this node. X, Y. No. Zero, zero, one, zero, zero, one, one, one. So all will give you zero, but no one. And as we did before, you will get zeroes. Right? Here X, Y. And I need X bar. X bar, Y bar after the circle. Zero, one plus. And. But and is between X bar and Y bar. So I have one, one, zero, zero, one, zero, one, zero. Now. It's bar and Y bar. One and one is one. This is zero and one is zero. One and zero, zero, zero. So this proves that negative and negative and is equivalent to two. You can also say that X, Y. X plus Y bar equal. X bar, Y bar. But the proof is that. So what do I have here? X plus Y bar. What do I have here? X bar and Y bar. X bar, Y bar is equal to X plus Y bar. And this is called development theory. And definitely you will see development theory in your final exam. Again, I want to remind you about the midterm exam in October 2nd. And you have enough time to do it. The tears will be wasted in my learning space. But most probably I will block the midterm exam in the same location as we do the quizzes. You have the question and you will select one of the four or five answers. And the question and you select one of possible answers. But you will not, you don't need to submit the details. You will give the details for yourself. I will only see the final answer. Okay? Yes? I thought it was a take-home exam. Yeah, it is a take-home exam. Like did you take the exam? You take it home, you review it home, you say that many, many times. Yes? Is it almost a choice or almost? Yes. I didn't finish, right? You may give me a chance to finish. So in the final exam, you will have multiple choice questions and you will submit the details. And if your answer is wrong, you will get zero, obviously. But you will need to submit the final exam that it is. But in the midterm exam, which is a take-home exam, which is you don't need to come to the class because it is a take-home exam, and I will give you at least 24 hours to do it. So where you will find the midterm exam, just in ways that you use to do the assignments. Not if it's just more weight. Okay? More weight. And you are not supposed to talk to each other for the midterm exam, for the two midterm exams. But for the assignment, you can. I actually solved the assignment with you leaving it in the lecture. And if you have more time today, I will solve assignment two. So for the midterm exam, you will not need to submit the details. But you will have to do the details to find the correct answer. And for example, if I ask you to find the tooth component in the midterm exam, then you will do the wealth component and then you will add one and then you will get the answer. And you look at the multiple choice questions. Oh, this is the answer. Then you mark the answer. If you mark the answer wrong, you will get zero. If you mark it right, you will get four candidates. So you have a very good chance to get four marks in your midterm exam. I will add the midterm exam one plus the midterm exam two. And if your final is better than the sum, then I will give you the same result. If your final is not good enough, then you will give your midterm exam marks. And again, you have to pass the final exam to pass the course. This is the development policy in all first year computer science courses. There is an assignment. Now questions? Questions? Yes. What did you say was the weightage? Like if you do better on the- Yeah, in the course syllabus, I said that you do better in the final exam. Then your final exam will be 60% instead of 40%. Okay, if you didn't do the midterm exam at all, then your final exam is 60%. If you didn't do any assignment, your final exam is 60%. If you didn't come to the class and do the assignment and then do the midterm exam, your final exam will be 80%. And the lab marks will not change. It's up to the lab advisor. If you have any lab questions, don't send them in emails. Don't ask any questions about the lab. Ask the lab advisor. Questions? Yes? How many questions in that room? I don't know yet. But I will make sure that you can do it in like at most one hour because the lecture time is one hour and a half. And you are supposed to do it during the lecture, but you have no time for the lecture. But you will work like one hour and a half of your time. Should be like during the lecture, but you don't have to do that again during the lecture. So I'm considering getting like 10 questions, similar to the assignment question, 10 questions. You spend like a minute in each question. So you should be able to do the midterm exam in like 15 minutes for the other exams. About one hour and a half from your time. Or just the intermission. The test is online and the test is not here. So it's going to be like 10 questions or 5? Questions? So we talked about N or not N and NOR gate. The special about NOR gate is universal. NAND gate is universal. And sometimes to implement the NAND gate is easier than implementing the NAND gate in terms of transistors. In the transistor level. Okay. To know the transistor level you need to take an electronics course. I combined actually many courses in one course. And C, B, 2, 2, 1. So you will learn DC circuits. You will learn Ohm's law and Kirchhoff's current law, Kirchhoff's voltage law. And you will learn AC circuits. And you will learn also transistors and VN. VNB transistors. In the past I used to get MOSFET but I found it's too much. So I started last year not to get MOSFET because transistor by molar transistor is good enough. And you will learn also operational underpinning. In a single way. In a very single way. Okay. Negative AND is not a gate. Our gates are NOR, NAND, AND, OR, NOT. Of course we can, as I said last time, that we can design circuits using just one or two gates. But these circuits will be very useful. For example, if a pair of them needs to land, then we have to extend this one, this tire, this tire, and this tire. So if this is 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, then this is good. This is safe. Then the tire is on, extended. 0, 0, 0 means I have one here. 1 here means BCC means the light will light. If I have 1 here, it means I have 5 volts, for example. Then this light is going to light. Then it's green. Then it's safe. But if any one of them is 1, then the other is 0 and it's not safe. So what I'm showing you here is that can I have just like a gate like this one and a gate, but before we have the 3 inverters, and then I can design that useful circuit, can we make it safe and when it's not safe? Yes. This is the idea. If I have 0 here, that means that this is on. 0 here means I have 1 here. 1 here means I have 1 here or 1 here or 1 here or 1 here and 1 here and 1 here. So if any one of them is 1 or more than 1 is 1, then problem. Then the tire is not in the right position. It's not in one, then it's not extended. Or two, or three of them, it's not extended. Then this red light will be on. Why one? Because I have here 0. When I have 0 here, there will be current. I have 5 volts here and 0 here, then there will be current and this will be on. I have 5 volts here, then this is going to be on. So if I have this end gate, but before the end there are 4 inverters, the diagram shows 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0. What is the output? I invert to the 0, it's 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, so the output is 1. If I have 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, after the inverter, this one becomes 0, 0, then the output is 0. Then the output is 0. And then we can complete the timing diagram. So again, what kind of questions can be in your mid-term exam or final exam? I'll give you the 4 signals and ask you about the possible outputs, one of them will be correct. Then you select the output. I'll give you the output and A, B, C, and I'll ask about what is the possible B. I will give you the 4 selections, one of them will be correct. Questions? What is, when you think about gates, I talked about no gate, end gate, or gate, and then I said, okay, I can have no gate and no gate. There are more gates. There are more gates. One useful gate is called XOR, it's an exclusive code. This is the symbol for an exclusive code. Why is this an exclusive code is important? Because when you look at the truth table here, you can see 0, 0, the output is 0. 0, 1, what is the output? It's 1, 1, 0, 1, but when 1, 1, I have 0. This is useful because this reminds you of adding two bits. When I add two bits, when they are the same, 0 plus 0 is 0. 1 plus 1 is 0 and I have to carry 1. So I can use this when I want to design the end of two bits. Just two bits, I can use this XOR. So again, here I have the output is 1, if A is 1 or if B is 1. If both of them are 1, the output is 0. This is what is called exclusive or gate. No low, the output is low. High, high, the output is low. But no high, no high, low, the output is high. Okay. But also I can come with another gate which is exclusive, not or, it's exclusive or. It's exclusive or, will give me 1, F0, 0, 1, 1, then the output is 1. Okay. So output is 1, when A is 0, B is 0. Output is 1, when A is 1, B is 1. Okay, if A is 0, B is 1, the output is 0. When 0 is output, it's 0. This is exclusive, not or. So this is also telling you something useful. Suppose that you have two bits and you want to see when they are equal. You want FZR equal, I want to have 1. Only two bits, two bits. So I have here input, I have here input, and I have here a device that I want to have 1 FZR equal. So 0, 0, 1. 1, 1, the output is also 1. So what should I put here? It's exclusive, and no. Because if I want 1, 0, what is the output? 0. It is here. If ZR is the same, the output is 1. If ZR is not the same, the output is 0. Then I can put here, I can put, it's exclusive, no. And my design here is telling me when ZR is the same, when ZR is the same, whether ZR is 0, 0, or 1, 1, the output is going to be 1. I can compare between two bits and have 1 FZR the same. Questions? So we talked about now it's exclusive mode. We talked about X mode. Sometimes like this was a circuit, this question was in the midterm exam last year. So I have input, I have, and I ask, what is the output? No, I have no input. So it is X over 1, 1 will get 0, 1 will get 1. 1, 0 will get 1. And the output is 0. So I gave you the angles and possible width problems, four of them. One of them will be correct, and then you select the one which is correct. So you should be in the midterm exam to get full marks. You should be also in the assignment to get full marks. So if you have 40 out of 40, and in the labs most of the students get half marks. You say 20 out of 20, then you have 60 when you go to the final exam. If you pass the final exam, 20 out of 20, you get A-. This course is easy to get high. You get the course of the materials and the materials are really easy to understand. So we have a course in microprocessor, microprocessor interface, 319, mainly VHDM, that I call to describe the hardware. So we will give you the understand the details of hardware and the computer. First we need to know the sports and the loader. This is what I was talking about. If I have, give it XOR, it's inclusive, or then 0.00, 0.1 is 1, 1.01, 1.1 is 0.1. I have a 21. So I have a 21. So I have a 21. So I have a 21. 1.1 is 0.1 and I have a 21. I have a 21. So I will need another output. I will need another output for the 21. In order to design the circuit from 1.4 to half an hour, I'm going to talk about this next chapter. So if I have XOR, XY, and I will put another bit here, and to visit where it represents the sum, and this represents the carry, and the carry is a carry. So all you want is an equal one, 1.1 and a half carry. Otherwise, the time will be equal to 0. And what about here? This sum is going to be the sum of the sum of 1. How does a twist table look like? I have two outputs, two outputs. The sum is 0. The sum is, what is the sum in this case? A u, right? This is the sum in this case, this is the sum in this case, 0, and I have a carry. In this case, I have a design, half an hour. And I will start designing for the other, for other means of frequency input, not to, and I will design a validator, so you can sum two binary numbers, and we will design the wire, and we will design the circuit, where the control numbers, the registers, and then this, right? Questions? The last part of this chapter is talking about programmable logic. So we will talk about this mainly, very briefly. For those that I have C and here, and you can see I have A u, B u. So if I can blow up these numbers, some of these numbers, for example, name this line, name this variable, what is the output? A is output, and B is B. B, B. This is how we will program the chart. But there are different kinds of programming in the chart. I can create ROM, B-ROM, or B-ROM, B-ROM means program once, not only program, but chart, the output, and I'm reaching what would be like this for a version. Or another one, it is like, I'm using a cruise, and there are different cruise, and this is a good version. But what about if I use one of the programs? So I can run the chip by the programs, and whenever it's needed to be programmed, I will work it in ultraviolet for like an hour, and then I can run it again. This is called the E-GND. And the last one that I want to mention is called E-E-ROM. E squared ROM. E squared ROM will be a kind of, I can program the chip, but my design is not working, then I can program the chip again by electricity. I want to read about the chip in ultraviolet. How am I going to welcome the chip? Amazing and interesting. Why? Because you will learn, but not in this course, in similar way, that you can write a code, like you use to write code in C or Python. You will write a code using VTML to describe the circuit. You want to say, I have AND gate here, and OR gate here, and the register VMI. You write the code, and you can see that the code is readable and very simple. To build your circuit. Or you can select three points on the right-hand edge of the animation of them to build a big circuit. To build a big circuit. And then, combine download the chip, and you define, of course, what is the input output, and then this big chip. You found that the design is not working. Then you can modify your device by having the statements, moving the statements, and between the description, combine download the chip, and then this big chip. Of course, you can test your device on two intercom devices before you download it. The one is good, and the other is interesting. What is interesting is, you describe the hardware by software. You write a program to describe what you want for the circuit. You describe the hardware by software. The circuit talks a lot more about VHVR. This is VHVR. Okay? Now, this is a gate, not a gate, but a gate, or a gate. And there is no gate, and there is no gate, and there is no gate, and there is no gate. These are the gates that we want to. Can you think of another gate? This is called box. What do we not want? This is a gate. I am interested now in to include, to give a little bit more detail, a gate, or gate, to give a little bit more detail, a gate, and a gate, your gate, it's all gates. It's inclusive of all gates. How about this one gate? The US is our first gate. What do we want to do? Now, what I want to do is what we put our interests into our gates. What do we want to do? To make it easier for you to get what I mean and make my information more clear. But also I need to use this very well in the final exam. I said, you are going to be back quickly. I am back. What to say?never never because I want to.. which is here, it is just all. It will be 0, 1, 1, 1. It's just all. But if it is all, then it is going to be 1, 0, 0, 0. If I ask you what is this here, you can give me this question, and you should say, no. Right? Just no gate. OK? Sometimes, actually, in the final exam what I have done in the last, there was like big circuits connected in end or no gates. And then I move on to the gate, and I go to this box, and I say, there's the arc of the situation is so. What is this gate? And then you try to figure out how many gates you learned in this course. Six? End or no gate. It's a crucial or it's a crucial no. Right? How many gates you learned? Forget all the ends. How many possible gates that we learned in this course? How many? Six? End or no. X or X and O. Right? And everyone has different to say. Right? Good. So what is my question again now? My question is, can you come with another gate? Yes? What is X and end? What is the true scale of X and end? He is thinking of another gate. Right? So he said, if you have X, Y, here if I have an end. You said end first? If it is an end. So what is the output if it is an end? If I have 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1. So if it is for the end, if it is just the end, then I will have 0, 0, 0, 1. Right? Then I will invert it. Thank you. 1, 1, 1, 0. This is an end. But what you want here for what you named the X and end or another gate? That follows to the answer. That the answer is, if I have X, Y, X, Y, and here I will write new, get new, you get new. 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1. How many possible outputs here? If I have four numbers here, and each one is, can be 0, can be 1, then how many possible answers here? OK. This is now a new question. I want you to tell me what are all possibilities for outputs. One of them is low, right? One of them was an end of the output 6. How many possible answer? You said 16. You? Good. Correct. Your friend said 16, and you will get credit. OK? So send me here today. And I'll have you to see it. But say the course. See, C, B, 2, 2, 0, and write 16. So I will remember what you said. He said 16. And the answer is similar, because what are the possible numbers here? 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0. 1, 0, 0, 0. 0, 1, 0, 0, 0. 1, 1, 0, 0. 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15. It comes from 0. And we end at 15. So these are all possible outputs, right? If I put this input and output 0, is this a gate? No? OK. If I put 0, 0, 1, and I get 1, 1, 1, is this a gate? No. What is left? OK. Impossible it is. Why I cannot use this one? Why I cannot use this one as an argument for a gate? Why? If I have 0, 0, now output is 1. If I have 0, 1, now output is 0. If I have 1, 0, now output is 0. And then because how am I going to differentiate between 0, 1, and 1, 0? Right? So in this case, my problem is I will have to order them. I will have to order them. But actually, this also may work. But what the problem is not all of them will work. Because I may need to say which one is x and which one is y. Right? Because I end up having here numbers that will not make sense. That will not make sense because I will have to order them. This works for fun. It's not going to be a good example. This task to make for a special memory to see how many possibilities. Obviously, you will say how many possibilities. Right? OK. This is good enough. I will go to the assignment. Questions? We finished this chapter. We talked a little bit about the memory. Here's the integrated circuit. You can see that VCC is connected to the band number 4 here. And band number 7 connected to the ground. You'll learn more about this in the circuit. And here you can see that this integrated circuit is called 7408. It has four and a gate. And it has a PPM, transistor-to-transistor logic. So you can find the kids about the gate in this grid sheet. 7-4 means transistor-to-transistor logic. Those are more integrated circuits. And the input has more than one input. But now let me go to the assignment. So your method again will be under the courses. Some students, few, still doesn't know that there are two websites, one for the labs, one for the theoretical work, the course, which is very strange. Many students actually fill in the course. Many. I don't know why. So now this questions, take questions for assignment two. So you can see that questions are very simple. And you will have similar questions in your midterm exam and your final exam. I said there will be no surprises at all. All questions in the midterm exam or the final exam will be the questions that discussed in the lecture. 42 is equivalent to 2 binary. Then what is 42? 42 is 32 plus 10. Why I said 32 plus 10? Because it's easier for me to know that 32 is 1. So I have 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0. This is 32. If I have 1 here, this is 2. 1 here, 4. 1 here, 8. 1 here, 16. 1 here, 32. 1, 0, 1, 0 is 10. 10 plus 32 equal 42. So I will give you the question similar to this one. 42 is equivalent to a binary. And then I gave you for answer. This is the correct answer. And that's it. The rest has nothing to do with the question. OK. Of course, I can put a number from 42. I can put 41. If I put 41, then the correct answer will be 1, 0. And here I have 1, 0, 0, 1. It will be 9 plus 32. 9 plus 32. Of course, you can do it by dividing by 2. We learned that dividing by 2 is a number. It's 1, 6. OK. So this was the first question. What about this one? How about multiplication? Multiply 1, 1 times 1, 1, 0. So you can do it by 2 methods. We have here 1, 1. We have 1, 1, 0. What is this number? In decimal. 6. What is this number? 7. What is 7 times 6? 18. What is 18? 18 is 16 plus 2. 16 plus 2. 0, 1, 1. 0, 1, 1. 0, 1, 1 plus 1, 0. Have I carried 1? 0, have I carried 1? Is this the answer? So you do it by both methods. Why? You don't want to lose an easy question. Very easy question. Simple question. So you have enough time. The final exam, I will give you 2.5 hours. Although I'm sure that some of you will have the whole exam in 30 minutes. You will select an answer. What do you have to choose the details? But if your answer is wrong, you will not get any credit. Question 3. Similar questions always in the final exam and in the midterm exam. Because the 2's complement is very important. So if I give you a number and ask you to find the 2's complement, in your case, it's not going to find only. You will select an answer. So after you find the 2's complement by finding the 1's complement plus 1. So I have here 0, 1, 1, 0, 1, 1. What is the 1's complement? 1, yes. 0, 0, 1. 0, 0. And then I add 1. 0, if I add 1 to my results. So what I have here is 0, 1, 1, 0, 1, 1. The 1's complement is this one. I add 1. Then this will be the result. And then I will see, look at the answer. I select the correct one. Many times, I say, oh, none of the above. That means that none of the answer is correct. OK. Then none of the answer is correct. Suppose that I didn't give you the correct answer. Then you will select the one which is none of the above. OK? Go to the next one. When performing binary addition using the 2's complement method and overflow can occur, when the overflow occurs, if I have a number, minus number, then no overflow. I will stay within the range. But if negative number plus negative number overflow can occur. If I have positive number plus positive number, then overflow can occur. As we said in the lecture before. So look at the answer. Both numbers have the same sign. Yes, this is the one. This is the one. Of course, all these have nothing to do with the answer. Go touch it, bro. What's the answer? Same one. Same, same sign. Which question now? We already done. Sorry. I haven't done it. It's due today. No, it's due 30th. It's due today. When the overflow actually occur, then the sign bit will change. The sign bit will show that the result is negative, although it is a big positive number. So by here, by incorrect sign bit. Questions? Questions? So again, make sure to understand these same questions. I go slowly because this is summary of what I have done in the lecture. Some conversion, easy question. When you convert hexadecimals. This F will take four bits, right? What is the binary number for F? 1, 1, 1, 1. F is 1, 1, 1, 1. What about 3? Yeah, don't forget the two zeros. There are two zeros because you have to write them in four bits. So the answer will be four ones. And I have here 3. And I have here D. And the last one is 8. And this is the number that was given. So I can give you similar question. In my final exam, my 10th exam, there was these questions. Convert the hexadecimal number into binary number. Convert the hexadecimal number into octal number. Into decimal number. Okay? So no surprises. All questions from the ones that we discussed in the lecture. If I have a decimal point. Oh, but this is BCD. He wants to convert them into BCD. So for BCD, four bits for 2. Four bits for 7. Four bits for 9. Four bits for 5. Okay? Four bits for 2. Is this true? Yes. Four bits for 7. Yes. Four bits for 9. 1, 0, 0, 1 is 9. 0, 1, 0, 1 is 5. So this is the right answer. This has nothing to do with the answer. This has nothing to do with the answer. This has nothing to do with the answer. Why? Where is the decimal point? Here? Here, this decimal number, 42.56. What is the weight? The weight of this 6? So when we talk about the weight, we talk about 10 to the power minus 1. 10 to the power minus 2. 10 to the power 1. 10 to the power 2. And so on. So 6 will have weight of 10 to the power minus 2. Minus 2. So the correct answer will be 10 to the power minus 2. This is the correct answer. Two more questions. Oh, here, what is the BCD by the recorded decimal form of course we can get in all the ballad? We have the book, so you can remember what is called ballad. What is the name of ballad? They don't expect me to ask you questions about ballad without reminding you of what is ballad. Because you may mix up the word ballad and the even ballad. Okay? So what you will do, you will put 1 or 0 after the number. What is this? This is 1, 0, 0, 0. Because it is BCD. Then you have 4 bits for 8. 4 bits for 3. 4 bits for 4. In addition to how many bits? I have 8 to work. In addition to another bit. Another bit for the value. So first you got 8 and 1, 0, 0, 0. We put 3, which is 0, 0, 1, 1. We got 4, which is 0, 1, 0, 0. And this is what we have here. This one, they depend on how many ones we have. We have 4 ones, then we put 1. Because it is all ballad. Okay? Last question. Having code. We talked about having code and having distance. Right? So is this an encryption code? No. Nothing to do with encryption. Is this the error correction code? No. This has anything to do with asking? No. Okay. Sorry. Error correction. Error correction. Having code in the communication, they will add more bits to find the error and the corrective. I mentioned this in the picture, but briefly, very briefly. So having code has nothing to do with encryption, but it is error correction. My analogy is error correction code. So this is the right selection. We didn't talk so much about having code in the course. But also we talked about what is the having distance. Having distance means how many different bits. Okay? So that's it for today.