 I introduced the standards one quiz per week, and it's going to take about four hours. So the quiz are due Monday evening on the 1st week, and they're less serious than I want. So I'm going to do a lot of the one-eights of like reading math. You know you're not going to do all these quiz, and the quiz is sort of according to plan, and it's going to be done in about two days, so you have about a week to work on it. And then there will be a quiz in a few days. Alright, you guys are good? Thank you. I'm going to thank your person. I'm going to move into our sample. I gave you a simple painting of blackjack. You were spending a dollar. And if you get an ace card in your first few cards, you have an automatic natural 21. You spent $1.50. How cool would it be to lose your tie in your $1.00 bet? Okay, we're getting practice probably. And question one. I'm going to have you do this on your own. But when you're not checking, you can do it now. I don't know. We won't test you on this. Some of the blackjack. So it's not a math class. I'm not too strict on notation. But this is a good, slightly casual way of writing that your application or your average is h times x and multiplied by probability of an average. And then you can do that. And that gives you the information. And you can do that in a table. You can calculate x times px in a table. And then you can do it in other examples. And each of those is like a contribution or an expectation. So I'm going to add a base to 0.135. I'm going to add a base to 0.35. 0. Okay. And then. Okay. Okay. That looks like fucking. Okay. One dollar. Okay. Real blackjack is a little more complicated. And there are many different variations. Because you're allowed to split and double. But in the end, there is always what's called a negative. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So that was just a warm up for today. Just like you're able to calculate the variance and your deviation based on some numbers. Okay. Okay. Okay. based on the order of what we've done in the past in incorporating, incorporating properties. So variance is not terrible, especially if you, well, this is kind of a standard table. So the way you calculate variance is very similar to the way you calculated it before. You take the difference from the average for each value you square it. So if the order of that is all up, you multiply that difference by the probability that happens to the variance. You do each part of the variance. You kind of did before, because things showed up multiple times in the variance. You would do each, like each time it starts to show up in the population in your previous calculation, you have to square it in the number of times. So we're waiting it by the probability. It's not bad, it was all the formula once. So, how should we do this? I think I can do this. Thanks. Yes. Okay. And the ratio probability is at decimals this time. Just to show you they're interchangeable. Look at the same x and p of x as before. Or this. There, decimals done. So this is the first time we're doing it. Just like you here. So that expectation we just calculated, that is the average. I think I finished it. And then, it's stable to continue for a while. I need to do x minus mu. And then we'll do x minus mu squared. We still like the probability should be interchangeable. We'll do x minus mu. See the whole thing once. I'm not excited. And I'll do it like two seconds. Okay. Change your finger, bro. Pens are dead. Note for these first three. We're doing x minus mu. How far away is the boat is from the average. And because we're doing minus and negative number for the first three, we're just adding. And then the last one is minus zero times nine times six. Zero times nine times six. And then things get gross and you gotta square all that. It's scratching. It's still crunchy. But I'll be 60. Things hold good, right? It's completely Chinese. advise you. I'll move the board up a little bit. You can't see it well. I've got it down here, but we can't see it now. I'm going to show you what you're doing. I'm reeling the three S-holes. The problem you see in the quizzes and the tests where you usually tell me about the echo games around the tube, and if they do, then I probably have a good idea to carry one more echo that eats around the echo. Then I need to multiply each of those things back by the echo. That's one of the first four. That might be the other one. So, just to be clear, it's 0.00001. Let me know what I'm going to do. Okay. You can go ahead and put that in the mean, the variance. Then we take the square root, we're going to have to standardize it. It will also be right around 1. It's telling us that a lot of the results within 1, the after, is very close to 0. A lot of the results are 1, 9, and 1, 4. So, that's 3. Let me know if I'm wrong. Okay. I'm going to put this on. Okay. Square root. 0.9, 0.4. This is in dollars, in case it wasn't clear. This is in dollars. Mine is 0.0. Yes. Okay. I guess notice that in the formula that we used over there for the variance, we didn't divide by n, like we did a week or two ago. The reason we don't do that is because the probability of X has already taken that into account. So, when you calculate the probability from, you're calculating them from like first principles, then you calculate the actual probability of something happening, you divide by n in there, so the divide by n is already in the event. So, that's why we do that. Okay. Okay. That is it for this part. Let me know if you have a calculator like doing that. I'm going to check on that. No one has any problems. Moving on. Okay. We're heading on to the final one. I've been learning that some of you have learned some of this stuff in high school, which is good. And finally, it's probably one of the things that some of you have seen. What are they? Okay. So, first of all, binomial is a special type of distribution. We're using some of the language from a few weeks ago. It's an experiment that's going to generate outcomes. It has n identical products. There is a probability of success, whatever that means. I'll put success in both. If you get to the final success, it can be bad. It's like the probability of something happening in each trial. Also, probability of failure, which I think can be good. It's not p. It must be 1 minus p. So either you can have a successful trial or a failure in your trial, and you can do it anytime. I'm trying to crack the egg. So each trial has to be used as two binomials. What this means is that flipping a pair of coins, ignoring possible bias in flipping a pair of coins. Uh-oh. Probably not like that. It's p. Flipping a pair of coins, where p is the normal possible bias, when it's okay, is a likelihood of success. Find cards from the top of the deck. I'm saying with that sort of thing, but if you draw a card from the top of the deck and set it aside and draw another one, you can say, with that sort of placement. So drawing one card is fine, but if you keep drawing, it is no longer independent of what you have drawn before, So if you have a deck with ten draws, drawing cards from the top of the deck is not possible. So if you draw one card and look at it, and set aside and draw another card and look at it, and set aside and draw another card and look at it, and set aside and draw another card and look at it, you are not putting any money into the card. So you are drawing a deck with less than a deck, and they are not independent of each other. We'll bring this to one more example. So think about the difference between Let me get going over it again, and drawing a card from the deck. One thing I've said is fine, and one thing I've said is not. What happens if I start calling people randomly, asking them if they support the growing prime minister or something like that? Some people say yes, and some people say no, and I keep calling people randomly. I'm conducting a binomial experiment. It's a trick, because if I don't allow myself to call the same people over and over again, I want to not call the same people. Arguably, you're doing this secondly. You're just drawing from a really big deck of cards that involve people. Technically, because the pool of people that I'm surveying keeps getting a little bit smaller, are you going to make a phone call? It is not like that. The population of people that we survey is so large that we pretend that it's not. This is important because we use this principle to conduct surveys in real life, and determine how people feel about getting in the water too. You can even say something is approximately the same. I believe you might have learned about the distribution that is close to binomial, but actually allows for population size change. But we don't care about that. We are going to use the fact that the population is large, and that we feel more like flipping a coin when we ask someone if they support a candidate or policy or something. Technically, it's not binomial, but we pretend it is. So, we then define X. And choose... That giant C is a giant C. It's choose. And there's a formula for that. So, that's one line C. You may have seen this in high school and early math class. So, N choose X. The number of ways to use X can be chosen from N. So, essentially the number of ways that X is accepted to have a number of... So, that's one way to use X. You have to pop out this. It's basically the same as what's happening there. You read it. No, no, no. No, it's all off. How is it out of it? That's one way to use it. And we'll do it like once today. If the formula is there, there's a table. I will show you that. Example. You know what? Before exam time. Note the expectation. And variance. So, you don't need to manually calculate the mean and variance by coming up with all the X's and the P of X's. With a bit of math. A bit of algebra. You can figure out the average of this integration. The average is N times 10. And this variance is N times 10 times 10. And those formulas might be useful. Think about what you need to do to calculate the average. You need to have all the X's. You need to have the P of X for all of the X's. And then you need to calculate the sum of the fixed series. And then it converges to the N times 10. That's actually a lot of math. So what is the 5th element? The length of the element. Now. What is the 5th element? So that length of the element. You can see the calculator here. So maybe what I'll do is I'll put the example forward and if you're all ready to write you the work on it. Hold on, test. It's a length. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. It's a length. I want nobody in the yard. I want to go to the bathroom. No, it's not the same. You can probably make one but there's some point. It sounds fine. It sounds fine. I can't type for sure either now. I have heard from students and other people that young people are being... Don't worry about it. Not a lot of people lose their jobs but we're also not a lot of people lose their friends. So we're going to suppose that 20% of people thinking of new jobs are unemployed. I'm going to say underemployed. And underemployed meaning that instead of working in whatever field they want to be in and they have a job but it's not what they want. There we go. Survey. What is the probability that... We'll say exactly two equals say they are underemployed. See, two or less people. Then over here, see, four. Okay. I gave you everything you need. I gave you N, I gave you D, I gave you things that I have to give you. Okay, so break time for you in five minutes. If break is done, call my office. If I can't do easy, I can't do shit. I'm not overcomplicating it, bro. No, I'm not. You do it, bro. I have a record account. Just make a lead account, a record account. Plus my thing's still recording, bro. I need to add a pause button after this. Like literally. I got to... Do you have to add the pause button? What? No, it's just representing like the list... Actually the pop method is wrong. What it's representing is like the list length is not changing. So it's a fixed array. Because like Python, the list array size changes, right? You could kind of change as well. You just add things at the end. So that's what it's trying to do. But like I don't know what I'm going to do. So yeah. And now I'm just doing... I'm just making null. And I'm going to shift one over every single time. I don't know if that's a good idea, though. Because like I could just pop out the ones and just like shift everything. It's just going to pop them out, right? Wait. And I guess... Well actually wait, wait, wait. No, no, no, no. Original... And I guess add null to the end, right? Original length is equal to length of num. Right? And I want to just pop out num.popI. Right? Now it's just going to pop out the ones that aren't there, right? And then we're just going to add the end outside of the while loop. We're just going to be like... How do we make this? How do we do this? How do we do this? Actually, you do it. You didn't have to do the whole thing. What? I don't know if you do it. Here you go. I got to beat him. You do it, bro. It's all right. It's all right. Good pepper, bro. Good pepper. You got like receipts on receipts. Only listen to when the professor says shit. I'm telling the AI to listen to when the professor says shit, bro. Because it's going to listen to us right now. But what it does is if I start talking about Python in the middle, it's going to pick up Python and it's going to bring Python shit on here. I'll fill the coin. Head of sales. We cannot compete against like UW kids, bro. I don't know why you're struggling. I'm not struggling. I'm not struggling. I know how to do it, bro. You're thinking too much. I'm not thinking too much. You're thinking too much. No, this is like now I got the answer. I'm straight up here like I don't have the rules. I don't have the rules. You speak for yourself. I'm better than all of this. What? Get up. I remember one thing. CP 164. No, no, no, no, no. I had this one thing with the structures. This is the movie one. Which one was it? We created like an empty list. I want that. What was it? You know you can do it. I know. I'm just trying to figure out something because like he created like I forgot how to make freaking empty lists. That's what the thing is. I remember how to make them but like I kind of forgot. Oh, yeah. So what I want to do is originally. I don't think like. I put the underscores. No, it's but no. But no, then how do you count? It says it doesn't matter what you leave behind the returned kick. Does that mean you don't need the underscores? No, you don't need the underscores. It doesn't leave beyond the kick. No, so like, okay, one, two. What it's doing is like it's a return of length plus one. Right. So one, two. Zero one. It's going to turn two. It's returning the length of the length. Because that's the length. This is like five. So like I could just. Because this length is what? Seven or eight? Why is it returning five then? Where? In the second example. One, two, three, four, five. Yeah. So why are you trying to preserve the original length of this? That's what you were saying you were trying to do. No, I was trying to. What I was trying to do was like I was trying to add the nose at the end. If it's returning the given length. The probability that there are exactly zero. Wait, K? K? There are people who say yes. And thus, and can. Everybody say no. The formula calculates how many waves this could happen. And the probability it could happen. So to get zero people who say yes. Ten people had to say yes. Quite a hard bet. Nobody had to say no. So it's zero. There is exactly one way this could happen. I'm going to try to also do more. I have my pieces. Nobody is going to apply a formula. And this is like one of the main reasons we have to do this. Otherwise, you can't. So the fact that the formula is zero, the fact that the formula is one. You may be like zero times itself is not one. And you are right. The fact oracle is actually a cheating function. That comes from a more complicated function. That actually allows you to take the factorial of any number. Including the decimal. And that function goes through the revamp. So that's why it's called the factorial of the number one. Okay. Also remember that something with power of zero, also one, depends on the number two ones. That is how you do that formula. That was right. That was right. Sorry, the original linear. So I'll use it back in. Next class, I'll show you the tables. I know what I know. Also, I'll show you how to do it in Excel. So, questions? There are shortcuts to doing the early parts of this. Okay, I don't want to figure out what ten factorial is and nine factorial. I just know that this is all numbers from one to nine. It's all numbers from one to ten. And that's one. This is the ten. Times one two. Times whatever plane. Okay, the power now. One three zero. Two six eight. Okay, two six eight. Again, we can kind of walk through it if you like. This is the probability of exactly one yes. Someone has to say yes. Someone has to say no. And there are ten ways this can happen because the end one is an end result. You may be wondering why I'm not answering these questions yet. But that's because I am, once I do the next one, I'm actually going to answer them out of the exact same people. Not only will we have gone through kind of the easier part of this, but we'll also have calculated all the numbers we need to answer all three questions at once. Why? One more time. Notice the formulas kind of pick up. There are like one and two. The formulas don't hang very much. Although they do get more complicated. And you get closer to the middle. So the shortcut here again, it's ten factorial by the eight factorial. So there's nine and ten on the top. Two on the bottom. One. Six. Three. And that is the answer. Exactly. Okay. So that's the last class that we went out of our way to find what a distribution was. It had to have outcome. So, I don't know if it is. I don't need this. I should start reading on that. I should start reading. Okay. Okay. Okay. We have started to build that hit across. Zero. One. Two. Three. One. Of course the answers are hiding all over the place. There's zero. Okay. It was zero. And I had them calculate. And I guess as a answer for you or what's coming, that distribution table I just drew is the table that you give. And you give you a whole bunch of tables. And you go find the end and the thing you want and you do that. So nobody is happier. You don't have to do these calculations if you don't want to. If you're going to use the table, it will be better. This takes a while. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Three. Yeah. So the blue numbers I calculated myself. Okay. Okay. Okay. That's judgment. That's judgment. So that's the average. And also is where the curve. That is my own distribution. Okay. So that was the table. You're in good shape. Next class I will show you a table that I'm not. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So we will be doing the quizzes and the midterm. We will definitely ask you at least one question like this. We always like you to set the questions. Whether it is probability that there will be like two or less successes. Or later more than two. So the probability that there are two or less is two or one or zero. I've kind of written it out in this slightly fancy way. We like to write it out. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thanks. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.