 I had a situation in my very first class this morning, and it's never happened in my academic career so far. And being student-oriented has its advantages. For you guys, obviously, and I also feel good when I see all those times and stuff. But I realize that people get to take advantage of that, too. And then that, then I have to raise my voice, and I don't like doing that. So I'm not knowing that I'm doing my voice, and that is affecting me greatly. Yeah, to the point where right now I'm talking about it and I want to cry. I'm going to crawl up in my corner and cry. Seriously, I do cry. I don't feel good. I don't feel good that I have to scold a student, and then now I'm off talking badly about me, and the other students are coming to me saying, It's not your fault that students have been disrupted in other classes for two years, so don't pay attention to it. But I'm just like, I feel bad. And then you don't want to know this. Girls call me therapist. So, right? Anyway, so what I'm going to do is, so I apologize if I'm not as upbeat, but maybe just being with you might make me feel a little bit better. So let's do this. So I am one chapter full behind, and the reason why is because the very first day of class I spent so long on introduction, which I sure have done. But we should have a class on introductions. I think that is what I'm going to advocate if I ever teach this course again. But having said that, I was going to record this for you, and then I realized this is imported testable material and I cannot record it for you. Because of that, like why? It's because it's better if I explain it to you. So this is what I'm going to do. I'm going to go through this lecture, and I'm going to try and explain these tough concepts to you. The chapter for today, I will try and record that, because a lot of that is just like, you will understand it if you listen to me, or if you read my slides. But then there is one component of that chapter that is testable, and that is the short answer. So that I will bring back to class next class and talk about it. Does that help? So today after class, when I get home, I will de-stress and then I will record. Hopefully I'll be able to do it in class, but if not, I will record that little component for this class. Anyway, let's get right into it. So remember last week, I kind of tried to talk about learning, but I was not very successful at it. So again, learning, awkward learning theory, social cognitive theory, these are the things I want you to be know about. So let me quickly go through this slide once more. So learning, like it says on your slide, it's a relatively permanent change in behavior potential, which I'll talk about in a few minutes, that results from practice or experience. So the key takeaway here really is that learning does not always lead to an immediate change in behavior, but it changes the potential to behave differently in the future. So the other point that's on this slide is that learning is driven by feedback. It is shaped by the consequences of our actions. And this idea, this comes from behavioral theories, or theories I would say, like the operate conditioning, which I'll talk about over the next few slides. But this feedback, it basically shapes future behaviors by either reinforcing or discouraging the actions. So feedback shapes future behaviors by reinforcing or discouraging the actions. So now, before I get into all of that, I want to talk about what is meant by behavioral potential. So a person might not show that immediate behavior immediately. What changes is that person's capacity or their readiness to behave differently when the opportunity arises. So there's a potential to see the change, even though you might not see it immediately. So the example that I gave in last class was swimming. So you can't really demonstrate swimming, I mean in my case it would only be during warmer weathers, right? So you might not be able to demonstrate it until next summer, but the potential to swim is still there. Does that make sense? So that's what's meant by behavioral potential. The change might not be immediately visible, but it will be seen at some point. The potential to change can be seen in the future. Now let's talk about the operant learning theory. So this theory basically states that people learn to operate on the environment to produce certain outcomes. So what that means is that the learner discovers how their action can lead to specific consequences. Either it could lead to reward or it could lead to punishment. So operant learning really focuses on what happens after a behavior is performed. So if the behavior is followed by say a positive outcome, like it's a reward or it's a praise, then that person is likely to repeat it. If it's followed by a negative outcome like criticism or pain, that person is less likely to do it. So it depends on whether that behavior is followed by a positive outcome or a negative outcome. Positive outcome increases your chance of repeating that behavior in the future. Negative outcome, it decreases your chance of repeating that behavior in the future. Now the last thing that I want to mention is this law of affairs. So the definition is provided on this slide. So it's basically that people tend to repeat behaviors that bring them satisfaction and pleasure. And they avoid behaviors that bring them dissatisfaction or pain. And this principle is actually foundational to operant conditioning. So say the behavior is a person or a student like yourself studies hard. Studies hard, receives praise, receives good praise, then what will happen? Is that person going to be more likely to study hard or less likely to study hard? More likely, right? Because the behavior which is studying increases because of the positive consequence. The positive consequence in this case was the reward or the good grades. Make sense? So like I said before, operant conditioning is used to increase the probability of desired behaviors and to reduce or to eliminate the probability of undesirable behaviors. So you want to see desirable behaviors, you do not want to see undesirable behaviors. So let's say I say a joke in class. So the behavior, which is also known as the operant in this case, is telling a joke. So the consequence is that the class laughs. Is that a positive outcome or a negative outcome? Positive. Positive, right? Okay, so what is going to be the result? What will happen after that? You say another joke? Who said that? Oh, okay. Is it there or is it there? Zohair. Zohair, okay. We'll get to that at some point. Okay, yes. I will say another joke in the future. Okay? There you go. Okay. Now say, again, the behavior remains the same. The operant is I tell a joke, but the class groans or has no reaction, right? So what is a negative positive outcome? What is that? Negative. Negative. So what's going to be the result? Tell us jokes. I won't tell a joke in the future, right? So that's basically what it is. Okay? You are trying to increase the desired behavior, reduce or eliminate the undesirable behavior. Does that make sense? Okay. Good. All right. Now, definitely note this. So if you don't understand my note, what I will say, you go into the textbook and you read this up, okay? Hint, hint. I couldn't say that in the recording. That's why I'm doing this. Okay. So operant conditioning can be used to increase the probability of what? Tell me again. What was it? What are we increasing the probability? A desire. Desired behavior. And we're trying to reduce and eliminate the probability of? A undesirable behavior. A undesirable behavior. Good. So there are two ways in which you can increase the probability of behavior. Okay. So let's say you're trying to reduce the probability of a desired behavior. Good. So there are two ways in which you can increase the probability of behavior. Okay. Both based on the concept of reinforcement. Okay. So what are they? You'll see them in green. Where is the line in the first one? So you'll see them in green. Okay. Positive and negative reinforcement. So what's positive reinforcement? Okay. So positive reinforcement, like it says on your slide, is to increase or maintain the probability of some behavior by the application for the addition of a stimulus to the situation in question. Okay. So basically, you are increasing, maintaining the behavior by adding or presenting a pleasant stimulus to the situation. Okay. So you're adding something pleasant after the behavior. So let me give you an example. So giving praise for a reward when someone does something well. What happens? The behavior increases. Right? That is positive reinforcement. You have made an addition to a pleasant stimulus. Right? What is the stimulus in this case? Well, it would probably be the praise for the reward. Okay. So the behavior increases. Make sense? Okay. Now, negative reinforcement is basically, again, like it, see how it says on this table, is to increase or maintain the probability, probability of behavior by removal or where you're taking away of a stimulus from the situation in question. Okay. So basically, you're removing something unpleasant from the situation when the desired behavior occurs. So let me give you an example. So you wear sunglasses, right, because why? Why do we wear sunglasses? Yeah, to stop the glare, right? That's negative. The glare is negative, right? The glare hurts your eyes. Okay. So what will happen then? You will continue wearing the sunglasses. Right? Similarly, you're taking the painkiller. Right? Why are you taking a painkiller? Because it's relieving your headache. It's giving you some sort of relief to your headache. Right? So you're more likely to take the painkiller the next time you have pain. Okay? So do you see the distinction between the two? In positive reinforcement, it's a pleasant stimulus. Right? So it's either a praise, a reward, or something like that. In negative reinforcement, it is, you're still increasing the probability of behavior, but you're basically removing or taking away something negative. So in the cases that I presented to you, the glare that hurts your eyes or your headache is negative. Does that make sense? Okay. Yes or no? Yes. Okay. Now, there are two ways to decrease the probability of behavior. Right? And these are known as extinction in red and punishment. Okay? So what happens when something becomes extinct? Alright. So basically what you're doing is you're removing the reinforcement that has been keeping the behavior going. Okay? Without that reinforcement, basically what happens is that the behavior gradually fades over time. Okay? So, here's an example. A child throwing a tantrum. Okay? So a child throws tantrums to obviously get attention. But if the parent stops responding, right, so no longer gives attention to that child, the tantrums will eventually stop because they are no longer reinforced. They're no longer paid attention to. That's basically what extinction refers to. Extinction is basically trying to say that without that reinforcement, behavior will become extinct. It will basically just fade over time. The child will just stop throwing a tantrum. Does that make sense? Yes. One of the other examples would be like, let's say like when you make money, you're basically adding a pleasant stimulus. And then when you use the money to pay off your debt, you're removing negative stimulus or unpleasant stimulus in a way. Which one would it be or what would be both? If you are making money. So let's say you get a check of like 10 grand every month, right? Right. And that increases your bank balance. That's going to be a pleasant stimulus because you're adding, sorry, that's going to be positive reinforcement, right? Because you're adding pleasant stimulus. Positive reinforcement is just you doing things that will lead to an increase in your desired behavior. Right? That's basically what a positive reinforcement is. Negative reinforcement is you're like taking away something, you're taking away a negative stimulus, but it would still lead to the desired behavior. If that makes any sense. Yeah, that makes sense. Alright. Okay. So extinction, we all understand, like the easiest way for me to make you understand that is just that when you remove that reinforcement, the behavior becomes extinct. Basically it is no longer, or it's going to fade over time. Okay? Then punishment is involving an unpleasant, is adding an unpleasant consequence after an unwanted behavior to make it less likely to happen again. Okay? So punishment again involves adding an unpleasant consequence after an unwanted behavior to make it less likely to happen again. Okay? So for example, a student talks out of turn. Alright? The teacher gives a detention. The student is less likely to talk out of turn in the future. That's sort of what I did this morning. But we shall see if it works next time. Alright? Does that make sense? Yes. Okay. So definitely, yes, Anne? On the term, should we use the words that you say or the words that are written on the slideshow? The words that are written on the slideshow. I mean, I just presented, I just talked a little bit about them. Yeah. Right? I just explained them to you. But you should know this. Okay? Know this. Know that there are two ways in which you can increase the probability of behavior. Two ways to reinforce behavior. So even if you didn't take notes of what I was saying, go to your textbook, take down the definition of positive and negative reinforcement. Just the definitions. Right? And then know that there are two ways to decrease the probability of behaviors. So to prevent behaviors, which is extinction and punishment. Again, if you weren't taking notes of what I was saying, that's okay. Or if I jumbled it up and you didn't understand it, that's okay. Go to the textbook, just get the definitions. Okay? Alright. Okay. So let's talk a little bit more about this. So I actually did go ahead and provide you with the definitions. But anyway, so there are two ways to increase the probability of behavior. Again, both based on the concept of reinforcement. So what is reinforcement? Let me just put it all up there. Okay? So reinforcement is basically the process by which stimuli strengthens behavior. Okay? So write that down, because that's not on your slide. Reinforcement is a process by which stimuli strengthens behaviors. Okay? A reinforcer is, like it says on your slide, a stimulus that follows some behaviors, and it increases or maintains the probability of that behavior. Positive reinforcers, they work by their application to the stim situation, right? So you are adding a pleasant stimulus. So what's negative reinforcement or reinforcers? They work by their removal from that situation. Okay? So these are the definitions. Okay. Now let me give you an example. So positive reinforcement. Okay? So positive reinforcement, remember what it does. It increases or it maintains the probability of some behavior by the application, right? Or addition of the stimulus to the situation in question. So the stimulus is called a positive reinforcement. Okay. So basically you are adding something pleasant after a behavior, which makes the behavior likely to happen again. Okay? So say you participate in class, right? So participating behavior might be that you answer a question when asked. Okay? What could be some possible consequences? Well, if it's me, it's going to be some sort of praise, right? We already established that. So I praise you. Okay? So what will that do? It will actually increase the participating behavior. Right? So the student is more likely to participate again, which is my hope. Make sense? Okay. Negative reinforcement. Okay? So remember what that was. It was increase or maintain the probability of some behavior by removal of a stimulus from the situation. Okay? So it also occurs when a response prevents some event or stimulus from occurring. Okay? And that removed or prevented stimulus is called a negative reinforcement. Okay? So basically what that means is in a nutshell, you are removing something unpleasant from the behavior. Okay? Which increases the likelihood of that behavior. So for example, I wrote my dissertation. Right? I worked on it. The consequence was why? Well, I wanted my supervisor to stop nagging me about it. Okay? I wanted her to stop nagging me about the progress. That was the unpleasantness of the behavior. I wanted her to stop nagging me about the progress. That was the unpleasant stimulus right there. Something negative is unpleasant. Right? Her nagging me is unpleasant. So what did that do? Well, I was more likely to keep on writing my dissertation. Is this now making more sense? Positive and negative. Yes? So positive, both are increasing the probability of behavior. Right? The word increase is right there. So both are increasing the probability of behavior. But in a positive reinforcement, you're basically getting some pleasant stimulus after the behavior to kind of reinforce the behavior. Okay? So an elementary student getting a star for attendance. It's a pleasant thing. Getting the star is pleasant. Right? So that reinforces the behavior. Oh, my God, I'm going to a day of next class, too. That's my elementary student's rotation. Right? That's positive. Negative reinforcement is basically you're removing the unpleasant situation. Right? Or the stimulus. Unpleasant. The glare is unpleasant. The heading is unpleasant. Right? The supervisor nagging is unpleasant. So it's going to increase the behavior. What's the behavior? In the glare, wearing the sunglasses. Right? Headings, it would be the painkillers. Dissertation, sorry, nagging of the supervisor would increase the likelihood that I would continue writing my dissertation. Make sense? Yes? Is it making more sense? Yeah? Okay, good. So reinforcement is a very powerful tool. Okay? But it only works effectively when it's used correctly. But there are some common mistakes that can happen. Okay? So the first is, and definitely know this, hint, hint. Definitely know this, okay? So what is one mistake that can happen? Well, you can confuse rewards with reinforcements. So not all rewards are reinforcements. A reward only works as a reinforcement if it actually increases the desired behavior. Okay? So giving everyone a sticker after class, regardless of participation, for example, might actually feel nice. Like all those kids, they get a sticker. Some have participated, some have not. Right? It feels nice, but it doesn't actually reinforce participation if it's not tied to something. Right? If it's not tied to the specific behavior, which is participation. Does that make sense? If I give everyone 10 out of 10, then you're wondering, why should I even participate? She's going to give 10 out of 10 anyway. So that's what I mean by that. Reinforcement only works if it's tied to specific behavior. Yes? In that example, what if the stickers are different? One's encouragement, while the other's like, good job. One's more like, oh, participate next time. While the other one's saying, good job. Yeah, that's fine, too. That does tend to happen in elementary school, right? Then it won't. Then reinforcement does have a meaning associated to it. So it doesn't apply in that case. Right? I think you're talking about the red sticker, green sticker, yellow sticker. Yeah, yeah. So then it has a different meaning associated to it. So you're still reinforcing good behavior because the green sticker ones are getting the best. Right? There's still a meaning attached to it. But when there's no meaning, then it doesn't have enough implementation. Okay? That's the first. The second really has to do with ignoring individual differences. Okay? For what reinforces one person might not motivate another. Okay? So effective reinforcement must be personally meaningful. Okay? For example, if I praise someone in a public domain, like if I publicly praise someone, for some that's great. Others might be too embarrassed by it. Okay? So yeah, there are situations like that. People might be too embarrassed by it. So you need to ensure that this reinforcement is personally meaningful to that person. Okay? The third really has to do with neglecting important sources or forms of reinforcement. Okay? And there are two powerful but often overlooked forms, which are performance feedback and social recognition. Okay. So performance feedback. People are motivated when they know that they're doing, or when they know how they're doing. Okay? So clear, specific feedback. It allows individuals to understand what behaviors are valued, what should be repeated. Okay? So what I mean by that is sometimes you might see feedback that's quite vague. Right? So just like, good job. That's it. But sometimes you might actually see like three or four sentences talking about your performance. Right? Like, oh, your analysis was actually very well structured and insightful, but then here are some areas in which you can improve. Right? The latter is more likely to bring in that desire behavior. It's more likely to motivate you. Right? Okay. Without feedback, I should also say that even the motivated individuals may feel lost or disconnected. Okay? And the second one is social recognition. So simple acts like praise, like verbal acknowledgement, like public appreciation, these can all be strong reinforcers. Okay? So for example, saying things like, you know, thank you for contributing or great teamwork today. Right? These can actually boost participation and it could boost morale. Right? And especially important in group settings like classrooms or workplaces, we, recognition can reinforce both the behavior as well as the thing known as a sense of belonging, where you're feeling valued, where you're feeling respected, where you're feeling like a member of that organization. Okay? Does that make sense? Okay. All right. So we're going to go into this. So when you're using reinforcement, how and when you deliver, it matters just as much as what the reinforcement is. Okay? So there are two things that you should know. There's the fast acquisition and then there's persistence. Okay? So for fast acquisition, all you really need to know is this, that you're using continuous and that you're using immediate or like short, immediate or short delay reinforcement. Okay? So here's an example. So I give my dog a treat. Right? Every time he performs the correct behavior and I give it immediately. That's fast acquisition right there. Right? Continuous, I'm giving my dog a treat every time he performs the act, the behavior. Okay? And I do it so immediately. So see the blue arrows? That leads to fast acquisition. Okay? Where the frequency of the reinforcement is continuous. So you're doing it on a continuous basis. You're doing it every time. And then the reinforcement is short. There's a short delay, meaning it's immediately done. Okay? And then persistence is the other one. Persistence, the frequency is partial. So you're using partial or you're using delayed reinforcement. Okay? So here's the thing. This is what I mean. Let's go back to the example of the dog getting the treat. Right? So if I give my dog a treat, say, every third time he performs the correct behavior, that is partial. Right? It's not done so on a continuous basis. It's not done every time it's seen. Right? It's partial. And then if I delay it for a bit, so I don't give it immediately, I give it like 10 minutes later, that is a delayed reinforcement. Or if I give it late. Does that make sense? Am I making sense there? Okay. So, yes? Wait, so the last situation you were describing, was it the same like, you basically say that it's still continuous when you're giving the dog a treat, it's just a longer delay? It's a longer delay. So I'm giving it like every third time they perform it. But treatment, because it's not there, it's not done so every time. If there is no continuous, I'm giving it treatment. I'm giving it treat. But it's every third time he performs that act. Does that make sense? Right? And I delay the giving of the treatment. That's what I mean. So it's not like, let's say he does a trick and then you give it to him like an hour later, but every time he does a trick you give it an hour later, is that still like? Yeah, so, no, repeat that again. Let's say like every time he does a trick you just give him a treat an hour later because you forgot about it or you needed to do something, but every time he does a trick you still do it like an hour after he does a trick. Okay, so this is the thing. So every time he does something and I delay it, that is still continuous, but it's long. Does that make sense? Right? But if I give it to him every third time or every fourth time he does it, so meaning there are three times where he didn't get the treat. Right? The treatment, the treat is not the same in every case. Does that make sense? And I delayed it. I delayed the one time that I was supposed to give the treat, I delayed it. That is what is meant by partial and long. Okay? So continuous is every time the correct behavior is seen, I've given it. Right? Every single time, whether it's the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, doesn't matter. That's continuous. Partial is every third or fourth time. So meaning the first and second, no treat. Third time, treat. Fourth time, treat. Do you understand what I mean? That's what's meant by partial. Yes? If you give him a treat, like say every hour, and you always give it to him like every hour, would that be considered as continuous and long? Yes. Yes. Yeah. But there is no, don't look at those combinations. Right? This one, just look at the fast acquisition and persistence. Okay? Alright. So, yes? In what situation would you use persistence over fast acquisition? Because like the dog, if you only get the treat sometimes, how does he even know that he's getting it? That's, okay, good question. Fast acquisition is better, right, than persistence, but that is not going to be on your test. Don't complicate it. Don't complicate it. Delete. Don't complicate it. Don't stop challenging me today, too. So, I'm going to be focusing on the dog treat. Everyone now wants to know when should I be feeding my dog? Right? You should be feeding your dog every time. Give your dog the treat immediately after the correct action. Okay? I'm quoting, quote me on that. Alright? Okay. Alright. So, it's best to tailor your reinforcement strategies to the news of the situation. So, no single strategy ever works in every particular context. You have to take into account a number of different things, right? You have to consider if we take it away from the dogs and bring it back to the learners, like us, we have to take a number of different things into consideration. We need to take our age, our preferences, the complexity of the behavior into consideration. So, what I'm trying to say is although it talks about this, it's best to adjust your approach, okay, over time. So, maybe you start off with continuous reinforcement, then you move on to intermediate, then you build persistence, but again, tailor it to the situation. And that is too complex for you and you will not be tested on it. So, do not worry about that. Okay? Alright. There are basically now, so I've now talked about reinforcements, right? I've talked about positive and negative. So, I talked about the two green stuff in that particular grid, okay? Now, let's talk about how to reduce the probability of the learning behavior, right? And remember, there were two strategies for that. There was punishment and then extinction, okay? So, punishment involves the application of an aversive or an unpleasant stimulus, right? Following undesirable behavior to decrease its occurrence. Alright? So, you basically added some negative stimulus to some negative behavior so that it doesn't occur in the future. Basically, punishing the guy. If you think about punishment, that's... If you think about punishment, right? That's what you're doing in a punishment situation, right? You're saying something so that that person would stop doing that in the future, okay? Extinction refers to, like it says on the slide, the gradual dissipation of behavior following determination of reinforcement, okay? So, it's basically the process of doing away with the reinforcer that is maintaining some unwanted behavior. In other words, the best way for you to remember what extinction is, besides knowing these formal definitions, is that it is going to fade over time. It is going to become extinct. That's basically how you should remember this, okay? Does that make sense? But these are the formal definitions, okay? Alright. So, let's give you some examples, okay? So, let's talk about punishment first, okay? So, the behavior is an employee engages in unethical competition. So, what might that be? Maybe you're sabotaging a colleague to get ahead, right? So, what's the consequence? Well, they're suspended without pay for half a month, okay? So, what is the outcome? Well, you're going to see decrease in that unethical competition, sabotaging the colleague. Why? Because pay is so important to all of us. We don't want to go two weeks without pay. Okay, that's punishment. Make sense? Okay. So, this is punishment because an inversive consequence, which is the loss of income, the loss of status maybe, follows the unwanted behavior, reducing its future occurrence, okay? Alright, now let's talk about extinction, okay? So, again, let's go back to the unethical competition, right? So, you're sabotaging others. Maybe it's other things like, you know, you're withholding information. Maybe you're bending rules to outsell colleagues. It could be any number of things, right? The consequence is this. So, say now the company removes the policy of giving very large bonuses to the top salesperson, okay? So, that was kind of the reinforcement that encouraged this competitive unethical competition, right? So, what will happen? Over time, we will see the employees becoming less motivated to compete unethically, right? Because that reward is no longer available. That reinforcer is no longer available. The bonus, for example, is no longer available, right? The undesirable behavior also decreases. Yes? Well, I had a question, though. Does it not push you too hard? No, it's fine. You can ask. Okay, so you said before extinction works best with the substitute behavior, right? With what? With the reinforcement of a substitute behavior. Yes, when you remove it. When you remove that, yes. So, what would it look like here? So, here, so that's what I just explained, right? So, say unethical competition, why does unethical competition occur in the workplace? Why do people behave unethically in the workplace, right? It was a rhetorical question. But you could have responded to it, if you wanted. No, it's okay. No, no. Why do most people? Just to get ahead. Just to get ahead. Like, what is that movie called? Wall of Scream? What is that movie called? Right, yes. Just to come up with wall of scream. Right, yes. To get ahead, right? Why do they want to get ahead? Maybe because there's a large bonus associated to it, right? Like, maybe there is some recognition that comes from being the top salesman, right? But that's a reinforcer, right? But if you remove that reinforcer, which is what I said in the example, if the company removes the policy of giving you a large bonus or giving you that recognition, you will see a decrease in that behavior. Because you're no longer motivated. That behavior becomes extinct. Does that make sense? It fades over time. So no one would want to engage in this unethical behavior. So it doesn't have to be like a brand new behavior? For example, when you want to train your dog not to poop on the carpet. Okay, now I'm so focused on the dog. But yeah, you wanted to poop on the litter train instead. That would be the substitute, right? So I was just trying to think. It doesn't have to be like a brand new behavior. Sometimes it just stops doing something. Yes, yes. You're right in that case. Now I'm imagining these dogs. Everyone's imagining a dog now in this situation. But yes, you're getting the idea. Is everyone else getting the idea? We're understanding this a little bit better or no? Okay, good. Okay, so when do we use punishment effectively? I'm not going to read this. You are going to read it at your own pace. But I want you to remember this. Remember this. Which one is more effective? You need to definitely remember this. Intent. Okay? I want you to write down this. Reinforcement is more effective than punishment. Okay? Write this down. And then reproduce it on that damn test of yours on Monday. Okay? Where would that be? Where is it going to be? Where is it going to be? Who said that? Erica, if I'm saying write this down and reproduce it. Oh, sure. Good job. There's my praise. Is she more likely to say it? Today she's like, oh no. Okay, good. Okay, but if all of what I had just said went over your head, here's a summary. Okay? So this one will also explain the thing to you. Okay? It explains it using a scenario, but I really need you to drill this into your head. Okay? So understand this. Okay? Make sense? All right. So so far we've been talking about how others can be trained to learn. Okay? So we've been talking about how others learn because of what someone else does. Right? So do we reinforce them? Do we punish them? But what about learning on our own? This is where the social cognitive theory comes into place. Okay? So the social cognitive theory, I'm just going to prevent you from reading out one. Social cognitive theory, it shows that we can learn by thinking, observing, and regulating ourselves. Okay? So it basically emphasizes that the cognitive processes involved in, it emphasizes the cognitive, what happens in your head, right? Processes involved in learning and behavior. Okay? So people are not passive responders to stimuli. Like they are in the upper condition, right? You're responding to some stimulus. But here you are active agents in shaping your own actions. Okay? So according to this particular theory, people can learn in a number of different ways. Okay? One would be by observing the behavior of others. This is also known as observational learning or modeling. Okay? So we don't have to experience everything ourselves. We can watch others and we can learn from their successes and their mistakes. Right? So for example, like a new employee, right? What do they do? They watch how a colleague deals with a difficult client and then models that approach later on. Okay? So you're basically engaging in observational learning. You can also regulate your own behavior. Okay? You can do so in a number of different ways as well. So you can visit the cognitive processes such as anticipating consequences. Like you're thinking ahead of time. Right? So for example, if I skip this task, it might hurt my performance review. Okay? You can set goals. So you're kind of creating your personal standards or your targets to strive forward or to strive towards. You can monitor performance. So you're paying attention to how well we are doing, what needs to improve. And then you can reward yourself. Also known as self-rewarding. Right? So you're giving yourself positive feedback. Right? Or whatever it may be. Maybe it's like taking a break after a big task or something of that sort. Okay? All right. Now, according to the social cognitive theory, human behavior can best be described as a system of triadic, reciprocal causation. What a mouthful. But what that basically means is that personal factors as well as environmental factors must work together and interact to influence people's behaviors. Okay? And then the other thing is that it's bidirectional, which basically means that people's behaviors influence these personal factors and environment as well. Okay, so not only does personal factors and environmental factors influence us with our behaviors, but our behaviors can influence these personal and environmental factors as well. Okay? All right. So now this is what I need you to take note of. I mean, just hear me out because the next few slides actually give you the definition. Okay? But according to Albert Bendura, who is basically the person who came up with the social cognitive theory, involves three components. There is observational learning, there is self-efficacy beliefs, and then there is self-regulation. Okay? So observational learning, what is that? Okay? It's the process of basically imitating the behavior of others. Okay? It's a form of learning that occurs by observing, by imagining the behaviors of others, rather than by having direct experiences on it. Okay? So you're kind of like observing the situation. Okay. Now, the best models for observing, this is what research shows, are those that are attractive, credible components, competent, and high status. Okay? So when you observe someone with credibility, meaning if you were to teach OBHR and you observed me, you're more likely to take that into account. Does that make sense? Okay. The other things you have to note is that vivid, memorable behavior is often imitated as well. Right? And the extent of observational learning really is the means by which learning and organization occur. It suggests to us that managers should pay more attention to this process. But anyway, let's move on. Okay? So that's observational learning. You're observing the behavior of others, rather than engaging in it yourself. Self-efficacy, this is basically the belief that you have about your ability to perform the task. Okay? So how confident am I that I'm going to actually do well on the task? That's self-efficacy. Okay? And it is a result of four sources of information. Okay? There is the performance mastery, observation, verbal persuasion, and social influence, and physiological state. So performance mastery, this is the experience and the success of performing the task. Okay? So I've performed this task, and I've already, you know, I've experienced this task before, and I've been successful at it. Observation of others performing the task. Right? Verbal persuasion and encouragement is basically the third one. Others say you can do it. Right? And then one's physiological state or emotional state can also have an influence. Okay? So what's your comfort level? Are you stressed? Are you relaxed? Okay? So performance mastery is, I've done this in the before, in the past, I've been very successful at it. Okay? Observation is, others are doing it too. Verbal persuasion or social influence really has to do with encouragement. Others are telling me I can do it. And then physiological state is just how are you feeling in the moment? Are you relaxed? Are you calm? All of those influence your belief of how successful you will be at the task. Make sense? Yeah? Okay. Easy peasy. Okay. Okay. Self-regulation, and I will talk about this in a few minutes. Right? Okay. So self-regulation, and if you don't understand me, please go to the textbook to understand this a little bit better. Put an asterisk around here. Okay? Put an asterisk around self-regulation if you're not able to understand me. So self-regulation really has to do with how you regulate your behavior. Okay? And there's two things you have to keep in mind, which is discrepancy reduction and discrepancy production. Okay? So let's break this down a little bit further. So a key part of this process is people's pursuit of self-set goals that guide their behavior. Okay? So when there is a discrepancy between one's goal and performance, individuals are motivated to modify their behavior in pursuit of goal attainment. Okay? And this is known as discrepancy reduction. Okay? So discrepancy reduction is basically where you see a discrepancy between your own goal and performance. Okay? So you see a discrepancy between your own goals, you see a discrepancy between your own goals and performance. So what are you going to do? You're going to modify your behavior. Right? Because you want to attain that goal. So that is known as discrepancy reduction. Okay. Now, when individuals attain their goals, right, they are likely to set even higher or more challenging goals. Okay? So once I've attained the goal, I'm going to work harder. Hopefully that's you. Right? I'm going to work harder. I'm going to have a new goal. I'm going to have more challenging goals. That is known as discrepancy reduction. Okay? So what are we suggesting with this? Do we both understand discrepancy reduction and then discrepancy production? Right? Okay. So in this way, people are continuously engaging in a process of setting goals in pursuit of even higher levels of performance. Okay? So in the self-regulatory process, both the discrepancy reduction and the discrepancy production are the, they are like the heart of this process. You need them both. Okay? So let's go here. Okay? So this is an example. So you're currently engaging in some sort of behavior. And you compare it to a standard. So you compare it to, you compare your goal to the performance. You notice a discrepancy, right? You modify it. You change your behavior. Okay? And now you're going to attain that goal. So now you need to set another goal. And that's where the production comes in, discrepancy production. So say our goal is to like feel prepared for the exam on Monday. Good. Where our behavior currently is that maybe we're working on it an hour, hour and a half per day. But we're noticing now we're not really on pace to like meet that goal. Yes. So like. So that would be what? Discrepancy or like. Yes, reduction. Reduction in bio. You can reduce it by maybe working more like two hours a day. Okay. So you change your behavior. You modify it. Right? So now you have created a new goal. And that is discrepancy production. Make sense? Okay. So you're studying for the midterm. Right? You monitor your current studying behavior. Compare that to your goal. Right? So what happens? In your case, you will study harder. Right? And then you will set a newer goal. That's basically what this process is talking about. Okay? So you notice a discrepancy between your goal and your behavior. You then modify your behavior. Now you have kind of achieved the goal. But not so much in the studying sense. You're going to constantly. Right? You sort of achieved it. But now you set another goal for yourself. And you just stop there. Does that make sense? Okay. So we understand that. Right? So you're kind of regulating your own behavior in that situation. Okay? Any other questions here? No? Okay. Good. Okay. So self-regulation involves a number of different things. Okay? And so you can collect some observation data so you can monitor your current behavior. You can observe models so you see how other people are doing it. You can set behavioral goals. So goal setting to create the discrepancy, to reduce the discrepancy. You can recurse to desired behavior. And then you can apply self-reinforcement. Right? So you can be like, I'm going to praise myself or I'm going to take a break or whatever. Does that make sense? So these are techniques in which you can regulate your behavior. But don't confuse this with this process. Make sense? This is a process of how self-regulation unfolds. Right? But these are techniques in which you can self-regulate. Those are two different things. Does that make sense? Do we have any questions? Okay. So from this slide deck, what is important to know? What do you think? Remind me again. Someone tell me. I've lost my mic. Yes? Discrepancy reduction and discrepancy production and the fact that one of them is the process and the other one is just the technique. Good. Okay. So you're going to remember this slide. Right? Well, not the slide, but you're going to remember discrepancy reduction, discrepancy production. Again, if you didn't understand what I said in class, go to your textbook and understand it. Right? Good. All right. What else did I ask you to remember? Yes? Not all of the words are reinforcements. Okay. Sure. So know the common mistakes. Okay. What else? There was like someone I said, Erica, sweetheart. Using punishment effectively. Good. No, no, no. Reinforcement is more effective than punishment. Okay? But that was slide under it. Yes. Okay. Good. Reinforcement is more effective than punishment. I don't think we have that moment. Okay. Good. Good. Good. Good. Okay. And what was the other thing? What was the last thing I asked you to pay attention? Yes? Before learning processes. Good. Right? That grid. Right? Know the reinforcers and then know the punishment versus extinction. Probabilities to increase and decrease behavior. Good? Okay. Now I'm going to move on. Okay. So I'm going to move on to the next slide. Okay. So I'm going to move on to the next slide. Okay. So I'm going to move on to the next slide. Okay. So I'm going to move on to the next slide. Okay. So I'm going to move on and we're going to talk about what's important in the next, this thing. Let me see if I can actually pull this out of you and see if I can finish in like 20 minutes. The first idea. All right. Let's do this out. I usually write this into class. So this chapter is all about perception, attribution, diversity. Let me ask you this, the question I asked you that you said, how do you understand I usually break this into class. So this chapter is all about perception, attribution, and diversity. Let me ask you this. Here is a question. I will tell you who this is afterwards. But your first impression, what is, for those who haven't participated yet, what do you think his occupation is? Yes? Like a gas station worker. A gas station worker? Anyone else? Artist. Artist. Okay, sure, anyone else? A mother. Okay, sure, anyone else? Do you want to say anything? What do you think his personality is like? Very like, careless. Careless. Okay, next. Aggressive. Aggressive. Okay, yes. Sure? Yeah? Maybe lazy. Lazy? I think he looks pretty nice. He looks, okay. Alright, he looks nice. Okay, sure. What do you think are his likes and dislikes? Those who, okay, yes, go on. Oh, nothing. Nothing. Okay, so what do you think his personality is like? Very like, careless. Okay, sure. Aggressive. Aggressive. Okay, yes. Sure? Yeah? Maybe lazy. Lazy? I think he looks pretty nice. He looks, okay. Alright, he looks nice. Okay, sure. Meth? Anyone else? Come on, easy. If you haven't participated, put up your hand. Yes? Like, gaming. Gaming? Okay. Who else hasn't participated? Cocaine. Cocaine, sure. Rock music. Rock music. So all four, you've participated. What does he mean by that? Mona. Mona. Did you participate? No. Okay, I'm sorry to pick on you. Just me. No, it's okay. Yeah, we did participate. Okay, so what do you think his personality is like? Very like, careless. Very like, careless. Okay, so what do you think his personality is like? I'm going to say video games as well. Video games. Okay. Yes? Lives on employment insurance? It lives on employment insurance. Okay. Did everyone participate there? Yes, we did. Participation here was done. Participate. Trenton, did you participate? Do you want me to say something about him, though? Yeah, go ahead. Any of the questions? Any of the questions? No. I don't know. I already know who he is. Oh, okay, forget. Okay. Did everyone participate there? Did all? Did you participate? He looks happy. He looks happy, okay. Anyone else? Everyone participated. Oh, yes, sorry, I'm sorry. He looks unemployed. Unemployed. He does drugs. Okay, good. Everyone participated today, okay? Okay, thank you. Okay, so that's it for this session. Okay, so that's it for this session. Okay, so that's it for this session. Okay, so that's it for this session. Okay, so that's it for this session. Okay, so that's it for this session. Okay, so that's it for this session. Okay, so that's it for this session. Okay, so that's it for this session. Okay, so that's it for this session. Okay, so that's it for this session. What are the factors that influence perception? Well, there's three components that we need to consider. So there's the perceiver, the target, and the situation. And this is what I will do. For this particular slide, I will actually provide you with my notes. So let's just hold off of that, because I feel like you will just, but here, let me tell you in a nutshell what it is. So actually, no, I'm not going to tell you. Just wait for my notes. I'm sorry. He's like, you're stressing me out. I'm stressed out, because I want to get through this as quickly as possible. But I'll give you my notes. I'll give you my notes for that slide, so you'll see it later today. Let's talk about perceptual biases and shortcuts. Do I have to give you the definition of leech? I do. How amazing is that? So I don't have to even go through that. Speed through it. But basically, we use a number of different shortcuts when we're judging others. And an understanding of these shortcuts can help us towards recognizing when they might lead to significant distortion. So this is what I'm going to have you do. I'm going to have you read through these slides. And if there is something that doesn't make sense to you, you ask me next class. These might be on your multiple choice. So to read through it, ask yourself, does this make sense? Does what Santa has on the slide make sense? And if it doesn't, you ask me next class. All right. Stereotyping is another one that you should definitely know. And I don't have time. But let's go back to this. Oh, no. Let me first talk to us. OK, do we know what stereotyping is? In layman terms, what is it? What we just did, like 10 minutes ago? Yeah. OK, good. OK, so we stereotype. So we took a personal characteristic, and we basically stereotyped, right? OK. So I've actually told you what stereotyping is on this slide. So just understand it. But let's go back to this person. Trendin, sorry to put you on this spot and to make you so stressed out because I can see you breathing heavily. But who is this guy? Basically, he's like a scholar. OK. Smart. He's smart, right? He is, I will read it, American computer philosophy writer, computer scientist, visual artist, and composer of classical music. OK? So he is smart. Google him up. He is nothing, what you said. He doesn't do math. He doesn't do cooking. He doesn't do any of that. I mean, he does. Who knows? I don't know if I'll slide it. But he's not any of the occupations that you mentioned. He's not any of those personality traits. OK. Learn about this. Let's talk about this. I have like eight minutes to talk about this. So here, I will spend my time. OK? So because this, why am I spending my time on this? Short answer. Short answer. OK? Attribution theory. OK. So I'm going to spend eight minutes talking about the attribution theory. So the attribution theory was really developed to help us understand the reasons behind people's behavior. OK? In other words, it explains the why to us. OK? So basically, attribution, like it says on your slide, is the process by which we assign causes or motive to someone's behavior. OK? So it goes beyond merely observing what someone does. Right? And it's all about interpreting why they did it. OK? So it's really all about understanding the why. Now, there's two. So we understand attribution, right? You're assigning cause or motive for one's behavior. Understanding why. OK? Now, there are two types of attributions. There's dispositional, and then there's situational. OK? So dispositional is internal attribution. So you say this. When you're making a dispositional attribution, you are basically saying that the person is behaving a certain way because of their traits, because of their personality, because of their abilities. Right? These are internal characteristics. Right? So Trenton got an A in class because he's smart. Brandon? No. OK. I said his name correctly. OK, yeah. Because he's smart. OK? Personal characteristic. Situational is external attribution. OK? So these are due to external factors. Right? Maybe it's the environment. Maybe it's context. Maybe it's luck. Right? So Trenton did well on the exam because Santa gave a lot of hints. That's external to him. Make sense? Or the exam was easy. That's external to him. Does that make sense? So I am attributing in dispositional, it's a personal characteristic. Dispositional means personality. OK? So you're attributing it to the person. Whereas situational means you're attributing the cause to some external factor, something external to the individual. OK? Now, it's important to remember that behavior is often influenced by both dispositional as well as situational. OK? Does that make sense? OK. So perception was all about understanding what we see. Attribution is all about understanding why did it happen. The key word here is why. You're up your hand up. Can I just go through it? Then you ask me. OK, good. OK. So there are basically three main questions that you should be asking yourself. OK? So these three explicit questions guide our decision as to whether we should attribute the behavior on dispositional or situational causes. OK? So the first has to do with consensus. Right? And here, basically, you're asking the question, does the individual act the same as others in the same situation? OK? So do most people engage in the behavior? Or is it unique to this person? OK? So low consensus means dispositional attribution. You're attributing it to one's behavior. High consensus means everyone acts the same way if it has to do with the situation. That's what's meant by consensus. OK? So if everyone acts the same way, what is it again? Yes? Situational. Situational. If only that person acted in that way, but others didn't, what is that? Dispositional. OK? All right. The second thing has to do with consistency. So does the person engage in the behavior regularly and consistently? OK? If that person doesn't engage in this regularly and consistently, we say that it is due to the situation. Right? But if that person behaves regularly and consistently, we say it's due to this position. OK? Does that make sense? No? OK, I will tell you in a few minutes then. OK? And then the third is distinctiveness. Is that person engaging in the behavior in many situations, or is it distinctive to that one situation? If this person engages in many situations, we say it is dispositional. If it's one situation, it is situational. OK. That's a lot to take in. So let me break it down. OK? So consensus has to do with, is the person acting like the same in that same situation? OK? So a lift. I'm nervous. Right? Are others in the lift also nervous? If they are, what is that, high or low consensus? High consensus. High consensus, meaning the lift is making me nervous. Right? But if I am a lift or elevator, sorry, I'm using my British term. So if I am nervous in the lift, but Jenny and Erica and whatnot are not, is that high or low consensus? Low consensus. Low consensus. So meaning I'm a nervous person. Right? That's why I'm nervous. That is consensus. Consistency is, does the person behave regularly and consistently? OK. So if I come into class every time and I say, how are you doing today? Is that regular? Is that consistent? So what does that mean? Yeah, what does it mean? No, it's not. Read it. So high consistency behavior means? Yeah. So meaning that Santa comes into class asking about how she's honest about her friends or not. But let me just quickly do it. Santa comes into class asking about people's behavior. She's friendly because she's demonstrating consistent behavior. But if Santa didn't come into class today and didn't ask you how you were, that's low consensus, meaning that it's due to the situation. She may be pissed off. And then the many situations and distinctive situations, is Santa friendly across many situations? Yes, if she is, that's due to her personality. If she's not friendly, she's friendly in this class but not in the other, that is due to the situation. Make sense? That is how you read it. We will pick this up. But I'm sorry that I sped through it.