 There will be no lecture on Thursday. This Thursday. You'll have 10 multiple choice questions. And the deadline to submit your answer is October 4 at 10 PM. I will post it on October 2, around 1 PM. So you'll have more than $50,000 to do the exam. The exam can be done in about an hour. And all exam questions will be answered to the ones that we discussed in that lecture. In the final exam, you will have about 20 questions. I didn't decide yet, but there will be around 20 questions. The difference between the written exam and the final exam is that in the final exam, you will have to submit the details of your solutions. But for the midterm exam, it is under quizzes, and you will do it without details for the midterm exam, the first and the second. But you have one exam. If you submit the exam, after the deadline, you will get zero. You will look at it after the deadline. Again, you can do it in like half an hour or an hour. Questions about the exam? I will not answer any question about the exam by emails, because the answer has to be to all students. You're OK to tell. No, it's going to be failed. No, no, no. I got it. Any question you want me to answer now? Yes. No, no, I'm sorry, bro. I got you. I got you, bro. What did I say? I said from the lectures, right? Not slides. The slides is not good enough. From the lectures. I was a slide, and I talked about the problem, and I investigated the problem. In the lecture, I went through the assignments. So you need to know what has been done in the lecture. If you miss a lecture, then read it from the text book. If you miss chapter two, read chapter two from the textbook. OK? Well, the questions will be similar to the ones that we discussed in the class. There will be no questions that you have seen for the first time. No. This is a basic course. So all questions must be discussed in the lecture. All of them. All of the final exam questions. All the two midterm and exam questions. No, thanks for the statement. Yes? Questions? More questions? To make sure you see here, the exam questions are similar to the ones that we discussed in the lecture. This is in my hand in this space. And you will find the midterm exam under the courses the same way that you solved it, assignment one or two or three. OK? Good. What we are going to do today is chapter four. We went through chapter four, and we came last time with 12 rules. These 12 rules. So we need to know these 12 rules. We wrote them last time. And these rules can be used to simplify an expression. Divergence here. We wrote the divergence here. And I want to remind you that when you see rules, you remember two statements. Why? The two statements will be the easiest way to prove. And the two statements, if I have two variables, then you will have four rows. So this is blue. That's x, y bar equal x bar plus y bar. How to memorize it? You distribute the bars and you change multiplication into summation plus. Or you change the plus into multiplication. And also distribute the bar. This is how to do it. How to do it? This way is to stay with all possible values. And then you find that x, y bar is the same as x bar plus y bar. x plus y bar is the same as x bar y bar. Here is the divergence here. But I don't want you to memorize this rule. What is this rule? It shows that x, y, z bar can be very easy to memorize. Yeah. Can we prove that it is not equal? It's not equal to x plus y plus z bar. How? How we can prove that it is not equal? If you use the truth table, you will have eight rows. And then you can prove that it is not equal. So, x, y, z bar, x, y, z bar equal. You distribute the bar, change the bar into plus. Then it is equal to x bar plus y bar plus z bar. This is different. What about x plus y plus z bar? x bar is equal to x bar y bar z bar. Questions? Any questions? So again, how can you prove this one? You can use the theorem or you can use the question. I can just appreciate it. What about this one? Distribute the bar, change multiplication into plus. What about this one? Distribute the bar, change the plus into multiplication. You can have other values here. Right? Distribute the bar. Distribute the one in this case. A plus B plus C bar. This is multiplication here. Then you will get plus B bar. And then you apply the rule again. To avoid doing mistake, you can make it A plus B plus C as like x. But you don't have to. You can do it one step. So the other step is A plus B plus C bar equal change the plus into multiplication. Distribute the bar. Questions? Okay. More examples. Now, we will start the real stuff. This is AND gate. Then what is the output of the AND gate? CD. So here will be B or CD. You can also write CD or B. Again, when I say or, this is the plus. B plus CD. This is the more than expression. So the final output is A times B plus CD. What kind of questions can I ask you in the final exam, second middle exam? I gave you a circuit. And I asked you what is the output. And then I gave you four possible answers. Or five. One of them is correct. Is AB plus ACD correct? Yes, correct. AB plus ACD is also correct. Questions? I heard the version of the same question. Yes. I gave you this gate C, B, B. And I gave you this gate A. And I gave you the answer. I write this gate. And I say, what is this gate? So this will be a harder version of the same question. And back to your friend when he asked me what is in the exam. In the exam will be questions from the lecture. Did I talk about this? Yes. Did I mention that I can either, I gave it and I gave you the output and the input. And these two gates. And then I ask you what is this gate? Yes. Can I, in my answer, I will say, is this gate N, XOR, NOR, OR? And then the right answer is? OR. And in your solution, in your VMA, you try to show as much details as possible. And then you select the right answer. And in the final exam, the first page will summarize all your detailed answers. So if you selected B in question one, then in question one you write A. In question two you write B. So the first page summary of your 20 questions in the final exam. In the midterm exam, you don't need to submit the details. You just select an answer. But you have one attempt. You have 48 hours to do it. In the final exam, you have 2.5 hours in an exam that I will make sure you can solve it in one hour. But you have to relax, no time pressure. You have enough time to review your answer. I will be there, in the final exam. Most probably I will go. But I will not answer any question. Because I cannot tell you what is the answer. I cannot explain what is this old gate for. Some students actually say, what is this old gate for? I don't know. What can I tell you? Okay? So all questions will be from the lectures. And I will try my best to go through all the assignment questions. I want to solve the first three chapters. The first three assignments. I will try my best to go through all of them. Today I am intending to finish this chapter. Depending on you, I will see how long I will take to finish it. And after I finish it, that's it. For chapter four. So you will relax. And you will get ready for the retelling. Question. Ask me a question. I didn't want you to come. Chapter four. Like if I say it's not going to be in the exam, you will not study it. And it's bad, bad, bad. And if I say chapter four will be in the dependent exam, it is not going to be in the dependent exam. So I ask you to study up to this chapter. And you can see that the materials are related. But to answer your question in a better way. And if I say verification of women's ex-separation is not going to be in the final exam. It is not going to be in the final exam. Definitely it's going to be in the final exam. Chapter four definitely is going to be very important. It's going to be in the final exam. For example, I am going to talk about Khan of Ma. It's not going to be in the midterm exam. This midterm exam. I'm going to do about it today. Okay. Does this answer your question? What is your question? Chapter four. Other chapters. Chapter five. How do you use the end-to-end class? Yeah. All chapters will be in the end-to-end class. Chapter one. We talked about everything in chapter one, right? Just I told the world is here in chapter one and then chapter two. And then this chapter. You can see how things are related to each other. Okay. Now, what about the truth table? How do you write the truth table? If I go 0, 0, 0, 0, this would be 0, right? This would be 0, right? 0 and 0 is 0. Then what is the final output? 0. I will have 0. And then I will want 1 for D. And then I will want how many possible rows? 16. And then I will calculate what is the output. This is the truth table. But I can also, instead of putting them here and calculate the output, I can calculate the output from this expression. Because I already calculated this expression. So can I put 0, 0 plus 0, 0 equal 0. And if I go to the second one, D is equal to 1. 1 times 0 plus, so 0, 0 plus 0, 0, 0, the output is 0. Then I can use the expression and change the values. Now, if D is 1, 1, 1, 1. Obviously, the output is 1 plus 1 times 1 is 1. And then I come with the truth table. You have to know how to go from the expression to the truth table. This is very important. In my previous exams, always there's a question about the truth table. Because the exam will cover all chapters, but also in a way such that we went through it in the lecture. What about this question? What do I have here? I have here D, A, this is A, B. What about this? A times A times B plus C. A times B plus C. What about this one? B plus C, right? B plus C and B. B plus C and B. So these gates give me this expression. But if I use now when I use simplification, when I simplify this expression, I have here A, B plus A, B plus A, C. Plus B, B plus B, C. If I simplify this expression, I will get only two gates. I will get B plus A, C. Details. Details about this. A, B plus A, B plus A, C plus B, B plus B, C. A, B plus A, B plus A, C plus B, B plus B, C. Now, what is B, B? It's just a B? What is A, B plus A, B? Only A, B, right? One A, B? Leave me some students. They will write in the final exam. Two A, B. There is no two. There is no two. It's only a suggestion. A, B. Two A, B plus two. OK. So you can see here, I use A, B plus A, B to get A, B. I can have B as a common factor, so it is one plus C. One plus C is one, so it is B. And I have here the rule that is A, B plus B is A plus one times B. So it is B times A plus one is B times one is B. So the final expression is B plus C. Question. I was able to simplify this long one to get B plus A, C by using these rules. Do you need to memorize the rule number? Rule number seven says B, B, B, B. No, you don't need to memorize the rule number. But you need to memorize the rule. You need to know that B, B, equal B. What is the rule number? Who cares? Number seven, number nine. But you need to show that there is a rule B, B, B, equal B. Okay. Another question. Is this the only way to prove that B plus A, C is equal to A, B plus A, B plus A, C plus B, B plus B, C? The answer is no. You may do the rules in a different order, and you may use different rules, but at the end, you need to come with the same answer. But whatever will come to your mind and you ought to apply, apply until you get the final simplification. We will learn today that there is something called the K-Map that can do the simplification much faster. Much faster. So using K-Map is also another idea. Questions. Do you have any questions about the first midterm exam? Because as I said before, I posted enough information in my learning space, and the only time that I will answer questions about midterm exam is during the lecture. Question answered. Or if it is a very important question, then I will post it in my learning space for all the students. Okay. Okay. So we learned Boolean Algebra, rules, and there are other problems. You can go through them. And now you understand that if I have some gates connected together, like here, I have gate and, and, and, then what is the output here? A, B. What about here? B, C, D. What about here? A, C. Then the output is A, D plus B, C, D plus A, C. You can see the materials are easy, but you have to be very careful when you select an answer and amount of choice questions. This is harder. What is this? I have here a random gate, and random gate, and random gate, and I have here, oh, here it was, before the old gate, there are negative, so this is called a negative or, if you like to call it. Is this gate and this gate, these gates, the acceleration one, are the same? Yes, of course, this is the same. This not cancel this not, this not cancel this not, this not cancel this not, right? But what is the advantage of knowing this here? The advantage is, if I give you acceleration and I ask you to use only NAND gates to design the circuit. So the first step is use AND OR gate. Use AND OR gate. This is easy. And then when you put inverters, both then, in pairs, so they will cancel each other. So I did here, both inverter and inverter, inverter and inverter, inverter and inverter. This not gate will make this land, land, land. What about this OR? OR, but it is before it, there is not, not, not, then the whole thing will be, so this will be that. Then I was able to design the circuit using OR NAND gates. OR NAND gates. Now I want to talk about something very important. Very simple, very easy, but many students do mistakes on the sender side. What is sum of product? So you see, sum, sum, of product. This is sum of product. What about if I have say F equal A B plus A C plus B C? This is sum, sum of product. This is called sum of product. Then what is standard sum of product? So I talked about sum of product. I have no problem with sum of product. Now I want to talk about standard sum of product. Standard sum of product I have to have, here I have three variables, A, B, C, then I have to have A, B, C, A, B, C in all terms. How are you do that? A, B, I, C plus C bar. What is C plus C bar? If this is zero, this is one. If this is one, this is zero. Then C plus C bar equal one. You have to realize the rules. We talked about the 12 rules. You want to choose them in details. Plus, what is missing here? B, then I will multiply by B plus B bar. What is missing here? A, then I will multiply by A plus A bar because this is one. Then this will be A, B, C plus A, B, C bar plus A, C, B plus A, C, B, bar. Plus A, B, C plus A bar, B, C. Now, I have A, B, C, I have A, B, C, I have A, B, C. I will, this is equal to plus A, B, C. A, B, C bar. A, B, C bar. Plus A, C, B bar. Plus A bar, B, C. I want to arrange them. So I will have A, B, C plus A, B, C bar plus A, B bar, C plus A bar, C bar. So I will have A, B, C, B bar, C plus A bar, B, C. This is called sum of product. This is called the standard sum of product. Now, true statement will show that this is ABC. This is F, 0, 0, 0. What is the output? If this is 0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0 is 0, right? And I will continue finding the expression and work the buttons. And I can do this in a table. In a table but in different orders. And this is called carbon of map. For carbon of map, I have here three variables. So I will have A, B, C. And A can be 0, 1. B, C can be 0, 0, 0, 1. Can be 1, 1. I will write 1, 1 first. I didn't write 0, 1. Why? Because I want to make one bit change. I want to change one bit. So this is why I wrote them in this order. Why I want to work one bit change? Because I want to move them to the 75th acceleration. And I will talk about this in more details soon. Good. So I am going to work the values here. Okay, from the two tables. But let me continue the two tables. 0, 0, 1. This is 0. This is 0. This is 0. I have 1 here. 0, then I have 0. 0, 1, 0. This is 0. Now this is 0. And 1. We have here 0, then this is 0. 1, 1, 0. This is 0. This is 0. This is 0. So obviously when here is 0, this term is 0. So I have to be sure about this one. Which is 1. What about 0, 0, but here is 1? This is 0, this is 0, this is 0. But when I have 0, so this is 0, then obviously this will be 0. What about 1, 0, 1? 1, 0, 1 is 1. Because this will be 1. What about 0, 1, 1? 0, 1, 1. 1. What about 1, 1, 1? 1, 1, 1. 1, 1, 1. 1, 1, 1. 1, 1, 1. 1. I come here to what I call the carbon tax. Which is the same as the boost table, but I both of them such that there is one basic change. So I have here 0. 0. A equals 0, B, C. The value is 0. And when I have 0, 1, 1. So 0, sorry. Now, this is a new order. So I have 0, 1, 1 is 1. 0, 1, 0 is 0. 1, 0, 1. So P is 1. Cursed 1, 0, 0. 1, 0, 1, 0. 1, 0, 1, 0. 1, 0, 1. 1, 1, 1, 0. 1, 1, 0. What is the value? 1. What is the value? 1. Now, I talked about sum of product. Sum of product. I talked about standard sum of products. But what is the minimum sum of product? The minimum sum of product I have to use my knowledge and use kind of math to combine these two and combine these two and I combine these two. So if I combine these two, A is 1 and C is 1. So F equals these two, A C. Plus these two, B, C. Plus these two, A, I believe it. It's underscores. Why? It's underscores. These two, A, B. Easy. So in the app, this is also minimum sum of product. Okay, who cares? So this is sum of product, yes. This is sum of product. And this is the same. It is the minimum sum of product, yes. But it can be different. Another problem. Different problem can be different. I'm going to talk about this in more details. This is just introduction to what is coming now. And what I want you to know at this point is there are there is sum of product, there is sum of product, this is sum of product, there is something called standard sum of product, and there is minimum sum of product. And for some reason, some students get confused about the differences. Now you see if I'm missing two terms, what do I miss? I miss C, I miss D, then I multiply by C plus C bar, and I multiply by D plus D bar. What about here? I multiply by F here. I multiply by D plus D bar. So as I did in the previous example, I multiply until I get the last expression here. What is this? This is standard standard sum of product. Make sure to memorize the difference between sum of product, standard sum of product, minimum sum of product. Questions? We talked about standard sum of product, we did about sum of product, but here what do we have? We have here product of sum. Is this a product? Yeah, multiplication, multiplication. Is this sum? Yeah. So this is product of sum. We will see what is the standard product of sum. What is the minimum product of sum? Again here, if I hold one circle and another circle, they will cancel each other. Circle, another circle, circle, another circle means I got inverters. And if I have negative and this is equivalent to more. So I can design the same expression using one, two, three, four, more here. What about the standard? If I come to this expression and I want it in a truth table, I can put it in a truth table and how many rules I will have? I have A, B, C, D, then I will have 16. 16 rules. So I will have 16 rules. And I will, I can do that if it is required to convert the expression into truth table. So I will have 16 rules. One, two, three, 16. This is product of 0, 0, 0. And I have with 1, 1, 1, 1. Now, in order to convert this A, B bar, C, to the standard product of sum, then I have to add D, D bar. Why? What is D, D bar? 0. D, D bar is 0. So when I add 0, it will not change the expression. And then this will be A plus B bar plus C plus D times A plus B bar plus C plus D bar. We talked about this rule before, right? And whatever, whenever a variable is missing, here I don't miss any variable, so it will be the same as it is. Here I'm missing A. Then I will multiply by A, A bar, because A, A bar is 0. And then I will get the standard product of sum. So, so far, the bottom line, we showed a lot the standard sum of product. Just the sum of product and minimum sum of product. And also we will have just the product of sum, standard product of sum, and we will talk about minimum product of sum. And we talked about true stable. We talked about true stable. So, if I want to go from true stable, this is important. I want to go from true stable. This is the true stable. To standard sum of product. From the true stable to the standard sum of product. So I will look at the ones. This is one here, and I have one here, and I have one here. Then the Boolean expression is X equal X equal A bar, B bar, C plus A, B bar, C bar plus A, B, C. Questions? This is the standard sum of product. But if I have the same true stable, what I want to write the expression as standard product of sum. Standard product of sum, I will have, I will look at the zeros. How many zeros I have? Five. Then I will have five multiplication. I have A plus B plus C times A plus B bar plus C times A plus B bar plus C bar, and so on. Questions? So I can write the expression on the true stable as standard sum of product. Another solution, standard product of sum. For the standard sum of product, I will look at the ones. I will look at the ones, and I write the expression plus plus plus. How many pluses? I have to have one plus one plus one plus one. But if I want the standard product of sum, then one, two, three, four, five. Five zeros, then I will have five brackets. I'm going to write two positions. Now we are going to go to something interesting. I believe this is the most interesting thing in this course, which is called Carnot map. Carnot map will help me to minimize the expression without the need to go to the Julian algebra rules. That was rules. I can use this K map to reduce the expression. The way that we draw the K map, you can see I made one bit change. It is not zero, zero, and then one, and then two. No. It is one, one. It is three. Why? Because there is one bit change here. So I can combine these two. Here I have A, B, C bar. Here I have A bar, B, C bar. So you can see only I have A, A bar, which means that I can take B, C bar, multiply by A plus A bar. What is A plus A bar? One. Right? So here, if I say this one plus this one, then I can quickly say it is B, C bar. B, C bar means B here is one, right? Look. One. And this is zero, then C bar. So I can quickly minimize the expression using K map by looking at the ones. So A bar, B, C bar. Suppose that I have the expression is just A bar, B, C bar plus A, B, C bar. Then what is the minimized version? I have one here, and one here. Then the minimized and the rest are zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero. So my question again is I want you to look at the table because I'm going to go to the camera now. First, I have A bar, B, C bar plus A, B, C bar. A, B, A bar. This is what I have. Then if I use the rules, then this will be right? Which is equal to B, C bar because A plus A bar equal one. If I look at the map, I can quickly do it because I can combine these two. I can put circle here, C bar, B bar. So for K-map, with three variables, A, B, C, zero, one, zero, zero, one, one, one, one, zero. This is what I have. For this exhibition, this is what I have. A bar, B, C bar. A bar, B, C bar. Plus A, B, C bar. A, B, one, one, C bar. This is what I have. Then I can do these two ones. And I can read it. It is C bar, A, B. Sorry. This is A, B. So I have A, B. And it is C bar, B. B is one, one. So from here, I can say that the exhibition is B, A, C bar. Questions? Again, these eight values can be in a close table. Right? Can be in a close table. Eight rows, three values. Now, it will end up that I will just need count of map with three values. You can do it this way or this way. It doesn't matter. And if I give you count of map A, B, C, zero, one, zero, one, zero, zero, one, one, one, one, one. If I give you some ones, for example, this, then you can group the ones and simplify the exhibition. So if the exhibition was a standard, what is the standard? The standard that you have one plus plus plus plus plus. This is the standard. What is the standard? X equal A, B, C bar. A, B, C bar. A, B, C, A, B, plus. A, B, C, plus. A, B, C bar. Plus, A, B, Plus, the last one is A, B bar, C bar. So this is the standard. This is the standard sum of products. What is the question? I want the minimum sum of products. I can group these two. No, I will group four. What is common about these four months? B is one, right? B is one. And C can be anything. It can be anything. So B. B means I concluded this four months. Plus, can I take this one alone? Can I say A, B bar, C bar? Possible. But this one is the solution. Instead of saying this one, this one is A, B bar. This one is A, B bar, and C bar, right? But this one is A, B, C bar. This one was this one. B plus B bar is one. Then it would be A, C bar. I can do it from here. A is one. A, C bar. So this is the only correct answer. This is the only correct answer. If you write A, C bar, B bar, is wrong. It's wrong because it's not the minimum. This is the minimum. This is the only correct answer. So if it is a multiple choice question, this is the only correct answer. OK? And this is called minimum sum of product. This is minimum sum of product. Suppose the student write a card of match. He was given standards on product. And he will write a card of match this way. 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0. And when you wrote these five values, it is B. So this is what is B. This is B. And A, B bar, A, B bar, C bar, A, B bar, B bar, C bar. It's safer to do it slow. OK. What I have here is this is B. This is B correct. This is B. What about this one? A, B bar, C bar. A, B bar, C bar is this one. Yeah. So I have from the truth table or from the exhibition, I will end up having this. This one can be written here. For example, A, B bar, C bar. A, B bar, C bar. A, B, C. A, B, C. A, B, C. A, B, C, bar. A, B, C, bar. A bar, B, C. A bar, B, C. A bar, B, C, bar. A bar, B, C, bar. So is this the same as this? Yes. It is the same. You write kind of on this. On this. They are the same. And then you combine these four. What is common here? B. This is one. B. What about this one? You need to know and memorize that the sides, they see each other. So this one sees this one. What is common here? A is one and C bar is zero. A, C bar. So you get x equal b plus A, C bar. The same answer. You get the same answer. Question. Question for both. But for the first student, you will answer the question. First one will answer right. You answer wrong, and you take one that's going to go to the side. That's going to go to the corner. Suppose that instead of writing 0, 1, 0, 1, I wrote 1, 0 here and 0, 1 here. Is this correct? Is this going to work? I think that's one. Don't worry. Yeah. Yeah, it works. It's one. Is this going to work? Yes. Why? That's not basically what's going to come to the last. Whatever is present. So that reason would be like, close, right? What you guys do is going to do is like, it's going to be like everything works in the character. Like in the business room. In the classroom. Yeah. So he is guessing it's correct, but I will add to it that if I wrote this one, 0 here, I have one here, I wrote this 0, 1 here, it works. Because still one has to change. All I want to do is one bit to change, and then I can group. But please, don't do it. We used to do it this way, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 0. 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0. Then put it this way. Although if you wrote 1, 0, and wrote here 0, 1, it will work. You will conclude me, right? I will know that. I will give you 4 calories. But these ones decided to go 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0. Then we want to be consistent. We will do the same way. Although if you want to put 1, 0, instead of 0, 1, definitely it will work. Because what we are doing is just one bit of change. And then we can group things. So it will work, as you said. OK, I will give you half calories. So recently, email today, just the same email, half calories. I remember what you have done. Questions? Because he's guessing is correct, he felt it. He felt it will work. Why not? It will work. But the explanation is that because we did one bit change. OK. Now things will get more interesting with four variables. Always I ask questions about four variables, but sometimes I ask questions about three variables. But four variables is more often in the exam. So we will do what we have done in the three variables. We will do 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 0. And then we will begin to allocate the variables. And we will do, we will make group of four ones first, or even eight ones first, and then four ones, and then two ones, and then we will write the exhibition. I put an example here. Me, so this is the exhibition or camera map, please give it to me. Give it to me. So here I have 0, 0, have you 0, 0, 0, there is some ones. Now to group, start with eight, eight ones. Whereas the interlogies are eight ones. What is common? Oh, B is one. So it is B plus. Can I take these ones again? Yes. Yes. Group four. Group four means here, what is this? C1. So I have C. And what is here? A is 0. C, A bar. C, A bar. What is left? This one alone. But I'm not going to take it alone. So I'm going to group it with this one. So it will be C bar D, A. C bar D, A. So the exhibition will be A bar C plus B plus A C bar D. So the idea, because I believe I need to go through more examples next time about camera map. I'll give you more, more examples. But I want to summarize the trick before we end the lecture today. Have four by four, card of map. I will start by eight ones. There's no such thing as six ones. Eight ones. Then four ones. Then two ones. Sides, they see each other. This side, this side, they see each other. This side, this side, they see each other. But for example, if I have here, let me give it down. But again, I'm going to give you a lot of examples next time after the lecture. Suppose that I have four by four. And say this is A, B, C, D. 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0. 0, 0, 0, 1. 1, 1, 1, 0. Suppose that I have 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1. The rest are zeros. Then this side and this side, they see each other. What is common? D bar. D bar. Good. Plus, can I give these two? No, I should give the four ones. What is this four ones? A bar. A bar. And the sides. Sides, they see each other. This side sees the side. Corners, they see each other. This one, this one, this one, this one. See each other. These are the tracks. The last thing that I want to talk about is to say we talked about minimum, minimum. This is minimum sum of product. If you want to get the minimum, broad of sum, then work on the zeros. How? Consider that these zeros are ones. And then work as a standard sum of product. So you work for X bar. So X bar, you consider these are ones. So I can combine these ones and these ones. If I combine these ones, what will be the solution for ones? It will be B, D, B, D. What is BD? This is BD. B. What about those? Those will be AB. AB. So I work on X bar. One, one, one, one, one, one. And then X equal divergence theorem. Divergence theorem. BD plus AB equal change of mass into multiplication. D, D bar plus, sorry, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, A bar plus D bar. B bar plus D bar, dot, A bar plus D bar. This is the easiest way to get minimum product of sum. The easiest way. There are other ways. And you'll get the same answer. So this is called product of sum, but minimum. I use the kind of math. Next time I'm going to give you more examples. I'll stop at this point. And I wish you all the best in the return exam. And you can get full marks in the return exam. Thank you. Oh, shit.