 behavior but it changes the potential to behave differently. Okay? So learning doesn't mean that you won't behave in the way that is expected of you. Learning just changes the potential to behave differently in the future. Okay? Does that make sense? Okay. So for example, you're learning OV concepts right now. My hope is that you would apply these OV concepts. That's a behavior I'm interested in. But it doesn't necessarily mean you're going to apply them. Right? It does mean that there is a potential to apply them. That's basically what I mean by learning. Okay? So that's the first point right there. Now, learning is driven by feedback. Okay? So it's shaped by the consequences of our actions. The idea actually comes from behavioral theorists like operant conditioning, which I'll explain on the next slide. But feedback basically shapes future behaviors by reinforcing or discouraging actions. Okay? Does that make sense? Yes, it does. Oh, it does. It makes sense. Okay. All right. Okay. So behavioral potential. That is the key word here. So what is meant by that? So it's really important for you to remember that the behavior, the learned behavior, might not be shown immediately. What changes is one's capacity or one's readiness to behave differently when the opportunity arises. So, someone learned swimming, right? But they don't show that skill until next summer. They're getting colder. Right? So the potential is there even if the behavior isn't immediately visible. Okay? All right. Now let's talk about operant learning. Okay? So operant learning can be used to increase the probability of desired behaviors and to reduce or eliminate the probability of undesirable behaviors. Okay? So you're increasing the probability of desired behaviors. You're reducing or completely eliminating the probability of undesired behaviors. Okay. Okay. Should I actually have it on the page? Okay. Okay. So you operate, like it says on your slide, in the environment to achieve certain consequences. The idea really is that you want to get the desired behavior. Okay? And it actually came into existence when BF Skinner came into place. But I'm not as like all you have, so I'm not really going to go into it. So would this, like, I remember hearing in like another country where like, I think like a scientist went and he saw that like a lot of kids were into like cigarettes. So he basically forced them to, you know, use a lot of them at once. Okay. Would this be operant learning theory because he's trying to make them learn through negative consequences? Yes. Yes. I don't know what he's saying that is. I don't know. This is like, I just, it was like a video. It was a video that you watched. Yeah. Yeah. Sort of like that. Okay. Okay. But let me give you an example. I think this might actually explain it a little bit better. Okay. So let's say I tell a joke in class. Okay. So the behavior, which is the operant, is I tell a joke. Okay. The consequence is that the class laughs. Okay. So then what is the result? The result is that I'm more likely to tell another joke in the future. Okay. Why is that the case? Because the positive consequence, which is the laughter, reinforces the behavior. Okay. This is known as positive reinforcement. So a reward basically increases the likelihood of repeating that behavior. But what if, I think these are in a different order than how I wanted it to be, so I apologize. But anyway, what happens if no one laughs at my joke or people groan at my joke? Right. The consequence is that basically, what happened here? Okay. The consequence, let me just talk it out. I don't know what's happening with my slides. So the consequence is basically that we see no reaction or we see negative feedback. Okay. So what will happen then? I tell a joke, people groan, no feedback. Am I going to tell jokes in the future? No. Right. I'm not going to do it. So in this case, the consequence reduces the likelihood of repeating the behavior. Okay. This can be seen as punishment or lack of reinforcement. Does that make sense? Yes? Okay. So I'm going to fix this, the slides, before I do it. But you know what? Why don't I just record it? Why I'm saying it is this. I'm going to fix the slide. I'm going to record it for you. But I want you to know operant learning because this is one of the questions on the midterm. And it's my question. Okay. Does that make sense? Hint in motel and people. So I'm going to record it. But then he fixed my slide. Because I'm not sure what's going on. It's not supposed to do it in that way. So just bear with me. I'm going to record it. But you have only until the week. Is that okay? Is that okay? If I keep going until Monday, then I'll remove the recording. Then we'll be on par with everyone else. Is that fair? Yeah. Okay. Let's do that. So you go for now. I'm going to fix on this. And then listen to it. So don't do it like the assignment that I had you do. Okay? But you didn't do it.