 So groups basically consist of two or more individuals who interact with one another. Interaction is the most basic element of a group. And this interaction does not have to be face to face. Now the other thing that's on this definition is interdependently. So groups work interdependently, which simply means that group members, they rely on one another. They have influence over one another. Groups have some goal that they're seeking to achieve. So there's a common goal amongst the group members. And it could be something as simple as having fun to maybe marketing a new product. It's a common goal. So when it comes to defining a group, it's basically what it says on your slide. There's two or more people that are interacting interdependently to achieve a common goal. Make sense? Now, groups and teams. These are used interchangeably, but there are subtle differences between the two. Groups, basically what that comprises of is two or more individuals interacting and that too interdependently. They have a stable relationship. They have a common goal. They perceive themselves as being a member of a group. But what is a team? A team is also a small group of people, two or more, who work closely together towards a common objective, common goal. They're held accountable to one another. But they're working over some period of time on some task-related purpose. So a group broader. So it's basically you're working. There's a common relationship. You're working towards a common goal. You're interacting interdependently. Team, look at the definition in itself. It's basically the same thing with just addition of task-related or task-oriented purpose. Does that make sense? Yes. Yes? These are the same as in Microsoft. All right. Now, in organizational setting, the term teams and group are often, like I said, used interchangeably. But like I've already said, there are subtle but important distinctions that are useful to understand. So let me talk a little bit more about this. So a team is basically a special kind of group. And it's characterized by task interdependence. So that is where the key is. It's a task-oriented purpose. So members, they rely on one another to complete their tasks and achieve the shared goals. But they're also, it's a group that's characterized by shared responsibility. So teams, like I said in the previous slide, they're held accountable for collective outcomes. A group, it's a broader term. It refers to a collection of individuals who may or may not interact closely or work independently on a particular task. So not all groups have task interdependence. And some groups might actually just be assembled together without a common purpose or a common task. So all teams are groups, but not all groups are teams, if that makes any sense. Task interdependence is what really distinguishes teams from general groups. So that's what you're seeing here. So group, broader term. It refers to this definition over here. However, within a group, we could have a team that is working on a task, or we could simply just have people that are working together, but there's no common task amongst them. It's just an assembly of people. Having said that, for the purpose of this class, I'm actually going to be using them in the same way. For this class, we will be using them interchangeably, unless I specify otherwise. So know the distinction, but for this class, we're using them interchangeably, unless I say, oh no, this is only for team specific. But do we understand the difference? What's the difference? Tell me what the difference is. What's the difference between group and task, or group and team? Sorry. I already answered the question. The difference, I guess, is the kind of work you're doing in the relationship, because for a team it's more specific and for a specific period of time, but for a group it could be more general. Yeah, so it's a broader term, more general. For example, team really has to do with a task in on hand. You're working towards some sort of task. This could be an entire group of people, but you're not really working on any task. Does that make sense? Whereas with the group presentation, that's a particular task, so that would be considered the team. Does that make sense? All right, now let's talk about, like I said, maybe using them interchangeably. So this I really, oh no, what happened? What is this? What is this? Okay, so there are two different models on how these teams or groups can be developed, and so I really want you to understand these models in paint. I definitely want you to understand the first one. All right, so the first is known as the five stage model. This basically, what is happening? So the first is known as the five stage model. So what you see on the top half is known as the five stage model. So the five stage model, what it does is it describes a standardized sequence of stages that groups go through. What are those stages? Forming, storming, norming, performing, adjourning. And the second model, which is what you see in green, this is known as the punctuated equilibrium model. And what this is basically doing is it describes the pattern of development that is specific to temporary teams with deadlines. So what are these phases that they go through? So the first phase is basically where you show little work, basically. Then you have a midpoint, and then after the midpoint is when you show most of your work. But I'll be talking about that in a few minutes. Does that make sense? So just remember that there are two main models when it comes to group development. The first is known as the five stage model, which is what you see in red. And then the second, which you see in green, is known as the punctuated equilibrium model. So let's first talk about the one in red, the five stage model. So the five stage model was introduced to us by Bruce Tuckerman. Tuckerman, sorry, not Tuckerman, Tuckerman. So like I said, it provides to you a standardized sequence of stages that groups or teams go through. And it kind of shows us how we move from independence to interdependence. How we go from working alone to working together. So what is the first stage? The first stage is known as forming. So what happens here? Basically, the members are trying to orient themselves. They're trying to understand the boundaries of the team. They're trying to get an understanding of what is expected of them, what kind of behaviors are expected of them, what are not appropriate behaviors, so to speak. So you're kind of testing the waters. And this stage is usually characterized by uncertainty as well as anxiety. Because you're trying to get acquainted with one another. So that's what happens at the forming stage. Does that make sense? The second stage is known as forming. Here, what do we see? We actually see hostilities and conflict. People are trying to vie for power, for status. People actually remain committed to the ideas that they bring to the table. And they're not really willing to accommodate the other person's ideas just yet. And because of that, we see conflict. And it can actually negatively affect some interpersonal relationships. It can harm the team's progress. So this stage of conflict amongst members exists. But at the same time, what they're trying to do is they're trying to work out the purpose, the goals, the objectives of the group. And if you don't really resolve the conflict, well that can actually threaten the existence of that group. But conflict can actually also be a good thing. Where it can help us create roles, it can help us create norms, if the differences are resolved. Does that make sense? Yeah? You want me to repeat anything here? The third stage is known as norming. So what's happening here? Members agree on their shared goals. They agree on the norms. So there's basically expectations that are agreed upon. Or rules that are agreed upon. And these expectations, these rules, then guide the behaviors of themselves, of the members. And what do we actually see at the norming stage? We actually see closer relationships developing. So what happens at this stage? Members, they realize that they have to work together. They need to work together to accomplish the team goals. And so they begin to cooperate with one another. So this is really the stage where the teams become more cohesive. People start to identify as being a member of that group. Does that make sense? So close relationships, this is usually where we see it. There is now a common way of thinking about doing things, common expectations of how things should be done. Make sense? The fourth stage is known as performing. So now you are actually channeling all your energy in performing the task on hand. You're comfortable with the roles that have been assigned to you, and you're making progress towards those goals. So this is really the stage where the work actually gets done. Okay, and the fifth stage is a journey. Now this actually applies more to temporary teams. So here basically you are concerned about wrapping things up rather than task performance. But for permanent work teams, the last stage that you're at is performing. But for temporary teams or committees or task force or anything that's temporary of nature, the adjourning stage is the last stage. So what that means is the group is no longer in existence. Which will kind of be what you will see after this class. No, what I mean by that is after this class you might not be in the same classes, right? So you might be placed in another team altogether. But if we were in an organization and you were all in one division, you might be there. You might be at the performing stage for years or decades to come. Does that make sense? Do I have any questions about any of these five stages? No? Okay. One of the things I like to do is I like to link this to dating behavior. Okay, so just imagine this. We're swiping left, right, left, right on all these stupid apps that are out there. Right, right, right, right, right. Okay, so what happens when you both swipe right? There is a match. So you're talking and now what happens? You have your first meeting. Oh my goodness. You have your second meeting. So you're in a mess. Uncertainty. Anxiety could be sick, right? Okay, then what happens? You start going more and more on dates. Okay, but you know what? I'm setting my ways. You're setting yours. Conflict might arise, right? Especially after the novelty wears off. Conflict might arise, right? And then what happens? Okay, so you work through your conflict, right? If you work through your conflict, yay, good for you. You try and understand how do I maintain my identity but also respect the other person. You now try and understand what are the expectations of one another. What are some rules that we can work with? Okay, so the relationships basically form norms, right? And then what happens? Okay, we've now been dating for some time. We're now in a relationship. But for me it might be marriage, might be kids, right? What might be adjourning? Divorce. Yeah, right? But think of it that way, right? So that's basically how this works. I always like to bring dating because everyone starts chuckling and they're like, oh yeah, that's exactly how it was in my last relationship. And I'm like, which stage are you in now? They're like, adjourning, right? So think of it that way. If ever you're confused about, oh my goodness, how does it work? Remember Santa's dating behavior example, okay? That will help you understand these stages. Okay, now one of the things you have to note when it comes to this particular model of group development is that not all groups go through these stages. Okay? This actually really applies to new groups. Like as in, it applies to groups that have never met before. Okay? So what do I mean by that? I don't know how many of you know each other except Jenny and Erica. I don't know how many of you others know each other. Like when you first came into this class. I don't know, right? So this might actually be applicable. If you've never met your group mates before, this will probably happen in this particular session. However, say you move on to level three, you move on to year three, and now you're with some of the people that you've taken a class with before. You're now really good friends with them, right? You get to choose your groups. So you might not go through the whole forming where you're testing the water. Maybe you might not even go through the storming where you have conflicts because you kind of understand how things work with one another. Does that make sense? Right? But let's put it into perspective. So like I said, not all teams go through the stages in the order that they met, that has been specified. But sometimes we might go to an earlier stage, right? So what might happen is, okay, so year three, you now get to choose your groups, right? So you're no longer testing the water. And you feel like there should be no conflict because you've worked really well with one another. So you should be at the norming stage, but a conflict might arise. So you move faster. Okay? Conflict, we look at it very negatively, but it actually can be a good thing, right? But it needs to be resolved in order to be a good thing. Okay? And then the last point is context matters. Pilots, for example, right, the main pilot and co-pilot, sometimes they never work with one another. They don't have time to do this like forming, norming, or any of those stages. They don't have time to. They have to perform. That's it. They have no time to test the waters, see if conflict arises, set expectations. No, they need to perform, right? They need to get us up in the air and land us in a good time. Does that make sense? Okay. So does everyone understand the five-stage model of group development? Yes? Good. Make an asterisk beside it because this is definitely on your midterm. Okay? All right. What's the second model? This is known as a punctuated equilibrium model. So what this does is it describes a pattern that is specific to temporary teams with deadlines. That's the difference here. Okay? So it's a temporary team or group with deadlines. What's the name of it? So Connie Gursick is the one that uncovered this particular sequence. And equilibrium basically refers to stability. Okay? And so this research basically revealed to us that there are stretches, that there are phases that people undertake, that teams undertake. So there are stretches of team stability, right? There is first a critical meeting point, right? Then there's a midpoint change. And then there is a rush to complete the task. That's basically what it's referring to. So there are basically two phases with a transition in the middle. Okay? So phase one is here. So what happens in phase one? Well, phase one would comprise of basically having your first meeting, right? And this continues until the midpoint in the team's existence. So what happens in this first meeting? So you're trying to set the agenda, right? For what is to happen during the remainder of that phase. But you're making little progress towards the goal. Okay? Transition happens exactly in the middle or halfway point in time towards the team's deadline. Okay? So this transition marks a change in the approach that the team takes. And how the team manages this midpoint actually translates into what we see in phase two. Okay? So here you're coming up with all the different activities that need to occur in phase two. And in phase two is basically where you're rushing to complete the task. Right? So decisions, approaches that you had made at the midpoint are now implemented. Right? And then what happens is you have a final meeting that kind of reveals a burst of activity and a concern for how others would evaluate your end product. Okay? So basically phase one, have a meeting, kind of set the agenda, but no progress is made. Then comes the transition point, which is known as the midpoint. This is where you're like working out the different approach that you're going to take. You're coming up with decisions. Right? And then in phase two, you're actually implementing this stuff. You're rushing to get things done. And then you have this one final meeting at the very end where you go over what it is that you came up with, how is it going to be evaluated. Does this sound familiar to you? What do you think? Definitely. Definitely. Talk about that. Let's talk about that. I think it's bound to happen. At first you never push for much, and then as the deadline creeps up, suddenly you notice how much work actually has been put in, and then you rush through it. Exactly. Right? Yeah. So I'm sure right now there's a group presentation that's due. Well, you don't really know. I've given you bits and pieces of what that group presentation is going to be about. Right? Today was probably the first time you even met your teammate. Yes or no? Yeah. Right? Next week, I'll probably be telling you about it. I'll tell you about the group presentation. You'll probably meet and be like, hey, let's exchange phone numbers. Right? And you'll be like, oh, that's going to really happen. Right? And then what will happen? Maybe after the midterm two, that will be your midpoint. Maybe. Right? And you'll be like, oh, S-H-I-T. This group presentation is due pretty soon. Let's talk about the different things that we're going to do. Let's divvy up the work. Right? You do this, you do this, you do this, you do this, you do this. Then from that point until the very end, two days or three days before this group presentation is due, that's when you're getting your work done. Right? And then you're all going to come together and say, okay, this is what we came up with. Let's put it all together. Right? You're rushing to complete the task. And you're concerned about how is this task going to be evaluated. Only this. Let's reverse the presentation. Okay? So, what is the midterm presentation? That is what is known as a punctuated equilibrium model. Okay? So, it's basically for temporary teams such as yourself with a deadline. Okay? Make sense? Yeah? Okay. All right. So, what are some things that we should know when it comes to the punctuated equilibrium model? Well, be careful for the first meeting. What that means is set the tone, set the structure. Right? For phase one. Early decisions tend to stick. The second really has to do with don't expect major progress early. So, phase one is all about planning. Right? Not about the progress. So, allow your time for role setting as well as role exploration. The third is manage the midpoint transition carefully. Right? So, the midpoint just by how I've described it is really the key turning point. So, here there are scholars that say you should reflect, you should plan, you should make adjustments, you should have a renewed focus. Okay? The fourth thing is ensure that you have resources for phase two. So, execution really needs you to have proper tools as well as support to implement the plans. And then the fifth really has to do with avoiding changing deadlines. Right? So, deadlines, they do drive urgency, especially after the midpoint. Okay? So, changing them will reduce the motivation. So, try not to beg for extra time for the order. Can we do it the next week? No. But then the group presentation is assigned. Okay? Make sense? Alright. Now, what I want to do is I want to talk about group structure on group performance. Okay? So, group structure refers to basically the characteristics of a stable social organization of a group or the way a group is simply put together. Okay? So, there are many different ways in which a group can be put together. But the ones that I want to talk about has to do with size and diversity. Okay? But there are other structural characteristics such as norms, roles, and status. Okay. So, let's talk about group size. Okay? The smallest number in a group would be two people. Right? But in practice, what is it that we see? We see that most work groups, including task forces as well as committees, they usually comprise of between 30 to 20 members. Right? But generally speaking, the effective ones are the ones that have four to five members in it. Okay? The smallest number of people working on a task, the better the outcome will be. Or the quicker you will make the decisions. Right? But when people have a lot of group members, cohesiveness, mutual accountability, things like that decline. Social loafing, which is something I'll talk about in a few minutes, it increases. More and more people do less talking in comparison to others. Okay? Does that make sense? Alright. So, the relationship between group size and performance depends on the type of task a group performs. Okay? So, let's talk about this. There are three different kinds of tasks that you should be aware of. The first is additive tasks. So, what actually happens here? Okay? So, here the group's overall performance is the sum of individual members' efforts. So, what happens here? Each member contributes independently and then their efforts are combined directly. Okay? So, let's take an example. You're building a house. Okay? There are multiple carpenters that are working on this house. They're doing different parts, but they're doing so simultaneously. Right? So, then the total output equals the combined efforts. The more skilled workers you have, the faster the house is built. Okay? So, what are the implications? The implications really is that group size matters here. Performance improves with more members, assuming all contribute. Right? Efficiency, it really depends on the coordination as well as individual productivity. But if there is no coordination, like coordination is difficult, if people engage in social loathing, performance will decline. Okay? So, the key point when it comes to this kind of task is that basically there are individuals, there are each contributing and their contribution really has a direct impact. The more hands that are used for that particular project usually means faster or better results. As long as everyone is doing their part. Yes? What's social loathing? Well, I'll talk about it in a few minutes. But it's basically kind of what someone has said in that group over here where you just don't take part in it. Okay? Okay. So, do we understand that? Okay. Then there is disjunctive tasks. So, what happens here? Okay? So, basically this is where the group's performance depends on its best members. Okay? A single correct solution or an idea can really drive group success. So, think about it this way. It's a group, you're trapped in an escape group. Okay? So, success in that particular case will really depend on one sharp, observant, logical person identifying the key solution. Right? The others just follow the lead. Okay? Right? The others just follow the lead. But that one strong contributor makes a difference. That's what tends to happen with me. When I'm in an escape room, I'm not that sharp, observant person. If someone else, I just follow the lead. But that one sharp, observant person is what drives our success. Right? So, for these tasks, group size can help. Right? As the group grows, the chances of having that higher performing individual increases. But it still depends. Why does it depend? You need to be able to listen to that person, for example. You need to avoid dominance by the less competent members. You need to ensure that that one leader of yours is recognized, is acted upon. Right? So, for these kind of tasks, the best person wins. Right? So, assembling a team with at least one excellent problem solver is critical. Does that make sense? Okay, two minutes. I'm going to talk about the third task. This is known as the conjunctive task. So, what happens here? The group performance is limited by its weakest member. Okay? The group can only perform as well as the least capable participant. So, an assembly line operation is a classic example. Right? If one worker is slow or makes frequent errors, the entire line is delayed. Right? So, everyone's output is dependent on that person, on that slowest, most or less accurate individual. So, here, group size actually becomes a risk. Right? So, why? Because as group size increases, so does the likelihood of including that weak link. Right? So, success, what does that depend on? Well, it depends on identifying and supporting those weak members. It means that you train them, you supervise them, you redistribute tasks to them. Okay? So, with this particular task, basically what happens is that the weakest link can break the chain. Okay? So, you kind of have to minimize the variance in ability. Right? You kind of need to cater to that, make sure that they obtain that support and training that is needed. Does that make sense? Okay. I'm going to let you go one minute. I still have like a few more things to do before I go into the next class.