 If you didn't pre-register, try to do it once in the future. Because like you can see, we've only got room for 90 people. The next session has 72. So if we had 18 people to show up, we're gonna get a little bit tight. But I'm glad you're here. This was a good one to show up for. We're gonna go through five main things in this blog. We're gonna talk about building a brand. We're gonna do some introductory stages. Talk about Foster Syndrome. And then what I think is the most important thing that we do in the course, before we start looking at resumes and cover letters, is thinking about what exactly should I be saying? How do I market myself? How do I brand my experiences in a way that my next employer is gonna see the value that I bring? So that's what we're gonna be talking about there. So everybody has a different story. Everyone has a mix of skills and experiences that they've gained from different things. And there might be parts of your pyramid where you don't have a lot of a certain thing. But the reason why we like to show you this is to remind you that your story and getting a job are a lot more than just your academics and your work experiences. In fact, the common thing we hear from students is I don't have a lot of work experience. So how am I gonna get my first placement? How am I gonna get into my first co-op job? Well, it's remembering that you're a lot more than just school and work and thinking about, so what do my past experiences say about me? So your personal brand is identity that stimulates a response in other people. So it's how other people perceive you. And the brand that you create is you managing how people perceive you and what they think you're about. So I really like this part from Terry O'Brien. Word of phrase that you want people to think of when they think of you. So the concept of positioning yourself means of all the different things you've done in your life, you need to think about which specific ones are gonna be the right ones to engage with, think about what I have versus what I don't have. Maybe there are particular types of industry like in finance that are very specific and you need to make sure that you understand what the expectations of that industry is going to be and then be deliberate about closing any gaps. So your positioning is gonna be something we do in practically every module going forward. So when you're doing networking or job searching, the way that you introduce yourself to somebody might very well change depending on your audience and what kinds of things from your past or what kinds of things you choose to mention in a 30 second statement. Your resume is gonna be a very fluid document. You're not gonna be submitting the exact same resume for every job you apply to. There's ways to get strategic and think about well which of my roles are gonna be more important to my target and how am I controlling that message. Cover letter, same thing. You only have room for a few stories in the cover letter. So which ones you choose to tell about, which ones you go into more detail about is really important to consider. And then interview questions. Like tell me about yourself. The dreaded questions in interviews. There isn't exactly a one size fits all answer to tell me about yourself when you're in an interview because part of it is me and who I am but part of it's also them and what they're looking for and making sure that we're meeting somewhere in the middle. So branding's a very deliberate thing that we're gonna be doing throughout the course. So we're gonna spend some time today talking about how you do that effectively. So if everything that you do in your life, other people could watch you and observe you and make value judgments about you and come up with their own idea of what you are, how do you even start controlling that? How do you start controlling that message of how other people perceive you? There's a couple of main ways. The first for Martin Nuzzi, I love this idea of starting with what makes you unique. And it doesn't have to be one out of one, you're the only person in the world who's ever done this thing unique. It's thinking about what are some of the things that I've done that relatively few other people have? What are some things that I've done and I've done it at a higher quality than most people? These are easy ways to start positioning yourself and thinking about yourself. But there's also this idea. A lot of students will come in and say, well, I don't know what really sets me apart. I feel like I'm kind of the same as every other student. I had standard high school jobs, I worked at Subway restaurants, I did the same kind of extracurriculars that everybody else does. I don't know what makes me special from other people. Well, the thing you have to remember is that the way that you tell your story is also gonna be unique, right? You're gonna talk about working at Subway in a way that would be different than other people, likely. So for me, I did work at Subway growing up when I was in late high school. And there were some things that I loved about working at Subway, like how you would time when you'd go on break to put a fresh batch of cookies in the oven so that when you started break, you had a fresh one from the oven, it was delicious. That's better. But other people would get other things. Maybe I would talk about ideas like inventory management. That was the first time that I ever walked in or worked in a walk-in cooler and had first-in, first-out principles. There's ideas of inventory management that are actually gonna be pretty important that some jobs are gonna be applied to. So part of it is just going back and thinking about what did you do? How did some of the things I acted on in this job actually appear in my future roles, right? So that's important to think about how you tell that story. The other thing, and this is like 10-year-old Gary Vee. He was really big on just be good to people. The first thing you can do to help manage your brand is thinking about how you make other people feel. So part of it is managing kindness, right? Being good to others. But another part of it is keeping your word and that when you get to deadlines, you meet them and that when you say you're gonna do something, you do them. Like those are ways that you're gonna build a good relationship with the people who are making decisions. The other reason why exploring your brand and getting to know yourself really well is important is because we've seen recent data that suggests that more than half of employers are significantly less likely to hire an applicant where they feel they clearly were leveraging AI to do this description for them. If it doesn't sound like a human and you're not talking about your real lived experiences and they sense that this isn't actually you talking and they don't get to know you at all, it's a red flag for them. So that's a problem and we need to overcome that. We need to be authentic and human written wherever possible. And I like this note from PWC's personal brand workbook. The secret to standing out and impressing recruiters is with the unique and authentic you in person, on paper and online. And that still holds true today, 10 years later. So I want you to think from employer's perspective for a second about what it means to hire somebody. I think as a student, we think about our perspective in the labor market. We're applying to a lot of jobs. There's a lot of rejection. There's a lot of time and effort. But why don't we start with looking at it from the employer's perspective. Hiring a student is not easy. Like they have to start with establishing a need to hire you, a business case for why it's gonna help the company to have a student working with them. Then there's job descriptions, marketing the job, posting the job, getting applications, screening the applications, interviewing people. This is a lot, right? So what I need you to start thinking about is that when someone hires you, they're also putting their professional reputation at stake. They need to get to know you well enough that they know when they hire you, you're gonna come in and perform well, that you're gonna do your best, that you're gonna try your best to execute. If you don't, there's someone tied to you. And it's important to think about that. There is a big word that I've started to use when it comes to what does an employer need to feel about you in order to hire you. If they have to do all these things and it comes down to two students and they had a tough time figuring out which of these students am I gonna take, what do you think this boils down to? What's the big word that needs to be associated with you? It starts with a T. They need to what? Well, trust. They need to trust you. Okay, if you're not giving them who you are and they don't think they know who you are by the time they read your application and interview you, I'm not sure how we're gonna gain their trust. I'm not sure how it's gonna work out possibly from there. Need to build trust. Get them to trust you. Building trust means they can see what you're capable of doing and what you're not capable of doing. Right? We shouldn't be going through applications and interviews thinking that we need to be perfect. This is not what that is. They need to be able to leave those situations knowing who you are and what they would be getting if they hired you. That's the important things. Your pitch needs to be detailed and specific. This is how you separate yourself from other people. It's not just that you did a pitch competition. What was the problem and what was your solution? Your story is gonna be unique, but saying you did a pitch is not unique. Everyone did that. So getting specific. Have an understanding of what you know so that the employer also can know what you know and what you don't. And the last thing is that it really should feel genuine. It should feel like you really want this, that you thought about this, that when they say at the end of the interview, you know, it was really good meeting you. Of all the companies you applied to, you applied to ours, why? You need to have a bit of an answer there. Oh yeah, what stood out to me about your company is that I saw that you're doing this. It means something to me because when I was growing up, I engaged with that in a similar way. Right, you need to be able to create those little connection points. So we're gonna do our first little branding exercise. I want you to look at this picture for a second. I want you to think about what kinds of skills or abilities do you think that this gardener is demonstrating when they do this activity? And we're gonna try Mentimeter. We've never used this in class before, and you're our first class we were using it. So what I need you to do is if you have access to your phone, you can use your camera and get the QR code, or get the URL from the QR code. I'll give you about five, seven more seconds to activate that. And then there's going to be a question on the next page about what skills you think they're gonna demonstrate, and you can start inputting some of those. Okay, so this should be live. Does this change now for your screen? Are you able to see the activity? Okay, so put in your, submit for me a couple of skills that you think that the gardener was showing. What talents would you say the gardener has? Has anybody tried to hit submit? But nothing's coming off from here, from mine? Okay. That's a bit of a womp womp. I can't figure this out in just a second. Okay, can someone tell me a couple of skills that came to their mind? What are some things that you thought of for gardening? Yeah? Patience. So patience is good, yeah? Organization. Organizational skills, yeah? So attention to detail. Attention to detail, yeah. Not afraid to get our hands dirty, you can get the dad jokes, yeah? Time management. Time management, good. And some plant knowledge. Some plant knowledge, some technical knowledge about plants and some decision making about what goes where, yeah. These are all good words. What I want you to think about now is we've got some skills that we've thought of, but convince me, all we've done so far is to say you're a gardener, therefore skills. But how would you describe to me that a gardener has organizational skill? What actually goes into having a successful garden where organizational skills is required? Can someone articulate that for me? What would that look like to you? You can show that you first like gave context by preparing yourself to garden and showing the steps that you took towards preparing yourself, so getting the seeds, getting the tools, making sure you have the right plant knowledge and research and all of that. Yeah, I love the research about the right fertilizers, having a plan for what is gonna be planted and where. If you wanted to incorporate plant knowledge, like if you were applying to a company that was more in the garden space, you can get into, yeah, I know about ideas like cohabitation and putting certain plants near each other because they usually benefit. So you can really articulate, demonstrate both that you're passionate about this, that you have the right skills for this, but you see how much better it sounds with a story versus just saying I'm a gardener, therefore organized. The part about building trust here is, well, tell me about it, describe the story for me. There's more, like I know people who do competitive gaming and we'll talk about how they get deep into the frame data of games. They try to leverage every little micro competitive advantage they can get so they can beat other people. That's good. The part about blowing stuff up, maybe not how you've grown a brand yourself. So what's the story you're gonna tell here? But this can be a trial. See, a lot of students talk about being on competitive teams, maybe it's all Ontario's with really good teams, where everyone was doing a particular function. It's not just everyone's doing literally the same thing on your team. So part of the trick to this is what was your contribution? You don't just say I'm a good team player because I play on teams. When I'm on teams, here's how I'm a good team player. It's the context, it's the story. So branding is incredibly crucial. You will sound generic if you say experience, therefore skill. You will not sound generic if you say experience, how, therefore skill. So what we'll do for a minute is a little activity, just to get to know each other a little bit more and to practice this idea of what have I done before, how did I do that, what does that look like, is there a skill that I can tell you that I gained from it? So I'm gonna walk you through the five parts of the intro statement that are here. And then I'll show you what you're gonna do for each one, and then when we're ready to start, I'll leave that on the board as a reminder of what you need to include. So for the start, so basically I'll go through who you are. So my name is Ian. I don't mind if you say your name and I am a BBA student or an Econ student, but remember in branding world, there's a lot of you that do that. So is there something deeper than that that you can say? Maybe it's something that more holistically you do or that you're striving for, or some way that you would define yourself that isn't just your degree. But I know this is kind of impromptu on the spot. You can only come up with a degree, that's okay. What I want you to talk about for most of your intro are the things you're passionate about. So when you're trying to make connection with new people, especially colleagues, people around your age, normally this is how we connect. What do we love? What do these passions say about food? For me, I like talking about food because it's relatively easy to connect with. There are other things I'm passionate about. I'm very passionate about having my own music, but I'm not gonna say that in intro when I don't really know what you're into. I'd be a risk. So I usually go with food. I love food because it creates connection. Because when you eat a meal with people, I feel like you just gain this level of trust and family that you wouldn't necessarily have with other people. It's also a good creative outlet. You can mess around with recipes, come up with your own thing. I've got a whole bunch of things that I make that I don't think anyone else in the world makes because I just know what I like and I've changed things over time. So it's creative outlet for me. So what about you? What are the things that you love? And what do you think that says about you? And by all means, you don't have to take it a conservative connecting route. If you wanna say something funky that you're into, go for it. We're gonna do this a little bit shorter. I don't think that flexing your strengths is exactly how you make friends with people your age. You're not gonna talk about how great you are at things. But I want you to think of one thing. What's one strength you have? What's one skill that you gain? And try to show your listener how you have that. What have you done before that shows that you have that talent? So I did put a couple, just for examples, assessment. I review tons of resumes and cover letters a year. But the important thing about that is I start seeing trends. I start seeing things that multiple students are getting stuck on. So then we try to teach ways to get around that in our sessions. So my assessment is doing pretty good. Research skills, use SPSS and Excel. So how about you? What's one thing that you think you do pretty well? And what's the story behind it? The next part is what's your vision? So where do you think you're going? Where do you hope to be in the future? And it doesn't have to be tremendously long-term. It could be something this week. It could be something the end of this month. It could be something co-operated, non-co-operated. But what's your vision? What are you aiming towards right now? Last part's easy. It's just you're wrapping up. And you're saying that's a little bit about me. Could you tell me about you? What this is getting us ready for is networking. Because when you network, you're not gonna be a performer on a stage. You're trying to talk 50-50. You're gonna ask questions back to your listener. So this is just a way of saying I'm done. Could you tell me about yourself? Could you tell me a little bit about what your strengths are? What are you passionate about? So if I were to put this all together, this is what a 30-second intro pitch looks like. So my name's Ian. I've been teaching students for about 10 years. I love food. I love how it creates regions and authenticity and traditions. One of my strengths is assessment. I review a lot of resumes and cover letters in a year. And I wanna learn more about authentic strategies as students are using the network effectively and comfortably is my big word this year. How do you do it the way that's comfortable to you? Tell me about yourself. So we're aiming for about 30 to 40 seconds. What I'll have you do is just in small groups, two is ideal, but three as a max is good. Turn and find people around you. In 10 seconds, all I want you to do is say hi and be next to someone that you can do your intro statement with. Once you're there, I'm gonna let you know how to figure out who goes first. So you can find people around you. You can get up, move around. I'll give you 10 seconds. And then we're gonna start, show you who goes first and we'll go from there. All right, let's move. I'm gonna put one around you. You get a machine on the counter. I put a machine in there. Which one? I just put you. I just put you in front of me. All right, so now that we're in groups, pairs, here's how you're gonna know who goes first. So first in your group who is the tallest is gonna go first. If you do not know who is the tallest, you can stand up and I'll adjudicate, but hopefully you can figure it out on your own. Oh, you can do it pretty close. Just that way. I'll give you a little bit of a lead. Yeah, isn't that a lot? There's a lot more to it. It's the highest this set that I normally use to see. All right, so what I'm gonna do is give that first person a countdown. Your countdown is three seconds. I'm gonna let you know when we get to 40 seconds because that is, all right, we gotta wrap it up. You're going a little long. So I'll let you know when we get to 40 seconds. Okay, so countdown from three. Tallest person in your group. Three, two, one. Let me start. I'm gonna go up on the table. I'm gonna be on the table. I love traveling. Hold on, hold on. Let's see how this works out. Success to manual control. Let's see where I'm at right now. Just a little step and we'd be funny enough for my first round. Let's start. What we need to, oh, do we know it to fit? I'm gonna go these ones and go all out. Five seconds left. With the future, I kind of want to learn more about the job. I'm going to see what I want to do. All right, we've got to wrap up. Next person. I'm going to give you a three-second countdown. Okay, three, two, one, go. Hi, my name is Jimmy. I'm an entrepreneur. I'm working at a company called Amarok. It's a company that's been around for over a decade. I've been trying to get into the business. I'm a cash flower. I've been doing a lot of work. I'm a cash flower. I'm a cash flower. I've been doing a lot of work. I'm a cash flower. I'm a cash flower. I'm a cash flower. I'm a cash flower. I'm a cash flower. I'm a cash flower. I'm a cash flower. I'm a cash flower. I'm a cash flower. I'm a cash flower. I'm a cash flower. There you go. That's... We can keep it really cool. That is my passion. I would definitely do that. All right, so that's 40 seconds. So if you've got a third person in your group, I'm going to give them a chance to talk. If you've done both of them, you can just hang out for a minute and debrief. But I'll give you three seconds to pass. I'll give you three, two, one, and we'll have the third person to pass. Okay. All right. Thanks for doing that, you guys. You can stay where you are if you want to. If you want to go back to your seats, you can stay where you are. I'm going to give you three seconds to pass. Okay. So that's 40 seconds. So that's 40 seconds. So that's 40 seconds. So that's 40 seconds. So that's 40 seconds. So that's 40 seconds. So that's 40 seconds. You can stay where you are if you want to. If you want to go back to your seats, you can. I appreciate your patience. We're going to try to make meter one more time at the end of the session. So I want to see if the end of it works. All right. So I hope that that was good to just do a quick intro. The time restriction was kind of deliberate. I know it's hard to do a 30 or 40 second intro pitch. But we need to start conditioning ourselves. That is, we are doing networking. We're doing the quick hi, how are you. We really want that part to be pretty quick. So we're going to refine that message, get it down to a few sentences. Hopefully that was helpful. And even just getting to know some people in the class is great too. All right. So what we're going to talk a little bit about now is a posture syndrome. So what we know when we apply to jobs is that companies are going to have job descriptions, which are lengthy at times. But you have to remember that these are wish lists. This is not an ideal candidate that they're looking for. This is not an ideal candidate that they're looking for. It is everything that they could possibly want from a student who's coming into the workplace. What you're going to do is you're going to be able to get into the workplace. What you're going to do is figure out, okay, so what from this job can I demonstrate? And can I sell to them that I could do? So they'll have expectations of you. You need to think about how you're going to be doing those things. But at the same time, don't box yourself in. It's not a time to say, yes, I can do literally everything. They're not expecting you to be perfect. So have a sense of what you're able to do and what not. So have a sense of what you're able to do and what not. It is common for students in undergrad when they're going through their first work term to have a feeling like you shouldn't be here, that you have imposter syndrome. You might feel a sense of inadequacy. One of the biggest times that that will happen is when you're going through recruitment. And if you have other friends that are in BBA, you'll see people getting jobs early. But it might be longer for you. It might be a struggle. Does not mean you're not supposed to be here, right? Everybody will get hired at a different time. And we'll also feel that way when we don't feel like we're represented. We feel like we're not belong in the space that we're in. And there's a lot of stereotypes and discrimination that helps push people into that space. And it's good to be cognizant of that. So I like this definition of imposter syndrome from Clance and I. The idea that you feel lucky, that you have to work harder than everybody else to get to where you need to be, or even that you've duped people, you've manipulated their expectations into something that you're not. These are things that you can't do. And I think that's a good point. You can't do something that you're not. These are five main ways that they are visible. I can definitely relate with one or two of them. Professionism. You let the 1% that doesn't go right impact how you feel about the process. Expert is the idea that you're afraid to speak up until you know literally everything. Because you don't want to look like you're not an expert. Natural genius. If you had a struggle, this didn't come easy for you. Well, it went easy for other people. So there's something going on between you and the other. And it's easy for other people, so there's something going on with me. Solists will often not ask for support because they think that process of asking for help says something. And then superhuman is common. It's the idea that you feel like you have to work extra hard, put in tons of hours, tons of time, just so that you feel like you'll hang with everybody else. So it's very common to feel these things. And I'm not a psychologist. I don't have the easiest answer for you of how you get through it. But hopefully these ideas will. The first thing is, does this thought help me or does it hurt? Is this something that I feel? Or is this something the world feels? Often there's a disconnect there. And it's good to remember that. Constructive criticism. We've had students, after we do a resume and cover letter review, they put in a really honest effort and came to Tara and I going, based on how this went, I'm not sure if I'm cut out for this. Like I don't think I'm going to be able to get there. Know that our feedback is really coming from a place of care and love, if you will. We want you all to succeed. That we're going to give you everything we can to help you make your documents as good as we possibly get. But think of it as support. If people are giving you feedback, it's because they care, right? Otherwise they wouldn't say anything. And if you're really struggling, share how you're feeling with people. Like whether it's family, friends. The last thing we want you to do is feel like you're going through this by yourself. That's why we very deliberately have peer mentors here for 14 hours a week. And Karissa has her office hours for two hours a week. So there's people here. Because it's hard. So go talk to somebody if you're feeling like you're having trouble. And that way, ideally, you have imposter moments. But don't feel like you have an imposter life. So what we're going to do now is think about, okay, look at all these things in a job description. Remember, you don't have to be all that. I think students will often count themselves out of jobs. And think, well I'm not good enough for that. I don't have all these things. But the secret here is remembering you don't have to be. You're just going to think about what in here can you do? And you're going to show that you're capable. So when we're looking at job descriptions, we start picking out hard and soft skills. So what are the skills they need you to do to do this job well? Soft skills are part of your job performance skill set. So how would you work in employment? Things like your work ethic and your teamwork and your problem solving. So these are tricky because you need some context to prove. When we did the intro statement, I told you think of something that you're good at, but try to tell the story. Soft skills need a story. Because you can say in a resume and cover letter that I've got problem solving, I'm organized, you can say that stuff all day. But for someone to believe you, they need context. They need to hear, well how are you organized? Can you explain that to me? So an example could be a demonstrated leadership as part of the Biochem Students Club. We invited, we involved the executive in our outcomes and presented the findings to the President of the Student Club. So that's how I led. These are the actions that I took. Hard skills are probably the most important for more technical roles. So if you're applying to a marketing job, talking about your technical marketing skills, whether it's SEO or working with customer databases or working with graphic design software or working with social media, those hard skills are important to try to dig into and share what you're capable of and what you've done. These are normally easier to prove because if you've really done these things, it's a matter of explaining what that was. How did you use that hard skill in practice? So if it was Excel, I analyzed financial statements as the treasurer of our club and I used pivot tables and VLOOKUPs, maybe XLOOKUPs now. Excel is graduating the more sophisticated ideas to generate your end reports. So that would be an example of a hard skill statement. The reason this is so important is because a lot of medium to large sized firms where they accept hundreds of applications for certain jobs will normally have you submit their application and it goes through a software that will pick out the hard and soft skills that the employer was looking for. And this is normally what it looks like from the back end. So let's say this was a more technical coding role. JavaScript gets you three points if it's mentioned on your resume. Frameworks gets you points on the job description. Cloud, testing. So they'll set parameters for keywords to basically make their scan go quicker. We only want the resumes and cover letters where they touch on the words that we want. If they don't touch on those words, normally you go to the outpot unless you've got a good recruiter who takes the time to inspect anyways. So it's important to start getting to know these industries. Every type of job you apply to will have different ATS needs. What you use on the job is not universal. And so a really important starting point when you build a resume and cover letter is you're not going to submit the resume that you use to apply at co-op. Because you weren't applying for a job there. You were just telling us, blah, here's everything about me. When you're applying for a job the trick is that the words from the job description need to be what you're focusing on. How have you looked at pricing before? How have you worked with Excel before? Have you done work with annuities? Any modeling? So you're going to get a little bit more strategic. It's not just me. It's what have I done that shows this. And it's also important to know that even jobs that look similar have nuance. So when you look at financial analyst and business analyst roles, a lot of students will say, well, I mean same thing, right? Basically you're doing the same thing. Well, I mean, yeah, to an extent. But you want to know the one thing that's missing from financial analyst that is in business analyst? It's on the bottom left. See in business analyst we've got problem solving down here. And we've got client versus client in here. I definitely saw client in business analyst. Stakeholders, customers, priorities team. A big difference for me between business analyst and financial analyst are who you're doing the work for. In business analyst roles, you're trying to find optimizations. You're trying to solve problems. We're not being efficient enough with our money. So how do we fix that? In financial analyst roles, you're not necessarily solving a problem. You're bringing together all the financial information from the company and building reports out of those. And letting managers and C-levels know, here's where we are in our financial standing. That's not really solving a problem. So it's important to think about, like, who are you doing this for? Is it a client? Or is it for your company? That will impact more. Are you going to dig into client service skills? Or are you going to dig into your problem solving skills? So whatever you end up picking, it's important to start thinking about, okay, what have I done in the past that relates? So if we're going for investing roles, we're going to be doing markets, analysis, we're working with clients, we're working with Excel, people who have high levels of achievement, and now you're thinking about, okay, so what are the things I've done? What am I going to promote about myself? So we're going to spend the last few minutes of our session today trying this out. So a common role that people have in high school, kind of like my subway stuff, a lot of people work in restaurants, in server roles, hostess roles, coach roles, bussers. What we want to avoid is just saying literally what you do. Because normally, if you're going into a workplace or co-op, you're not going to be welcoming guests and taking them to tables. Like this is just not branded for where you're going. So all that has is tasks and some actions. What we want to focus on is what were the skills you gained from being a server. And you explain it. So let's start with communication. Probably an easy one for serving roles. As everyone can picture, as a server, you're probably speaking to people. But we need to describe that. It's not just taking people to tables and communicating to them. What are you communicating? How are you communicating? So maybe you had a restaurant that did daily specials. So you have to memorize those every day. The chef might have really exact expectations of you about you can describe all these different things. These ingredients are from this property that's close to here. I want you to tell them that when you're describing this. And I answer questions about dietary restrictions, ingredient sourcing. So that's how I was a good presenter. We need the story part. Problem solving. Maybe you had customer complaints about food quality. You had to issue corrections. You had to negotiate with your management about whether you might be able to call a meal for them. But this all has to do with problem solving. How did you go about resolving the issue? It's not just that there was a problem you solved. It's how. And then working under pressure. It's multiple priorities as a server. You're relating yourself to the customer first. They need your attention. But you've got multiple tables. You've got the kitchen who expects that when something is made, it gets served hot and it gets expedited and sent out. You've got your managers. You've got other staff that work different stations in the restaurant. So there's a lot of pressure here. But as a reader, we'll only understand that pressure if you tell us about it and dig in a little bit. So get into the how. That's the important part. Some more technical skills. Let's use case competitions now. I would say that if you don't have a lot of professional work yet, you haven't worked in a business-y type role, which by the way is most of us, we're going to need to lean on something else. Whether it's cases, projects from class, that's normally where you use these concepts. You can talk about forecasting. Because I used financial statements and sales projections from the last three years to estimate revenue. I did it in this software. That's really good. I did market research on consumer data. They're spending habits. I conducted surveys, semi-structured, took that data, found the insights, and did this with it. Data analysis. You can focus on the data piece. So can you see that for a case competition, there's a ton that you can lean on, but the students who aren't thinking deep enough about branding will say that. They're going to say, I worked as a group, we had a problem, we worked towards a solution, and then we presented it. That's a case competition. But that's not what you did. So we're missing the branding. I want to look at some marketing skills. In marketing, some soft skills might be your creativity. It might be that you're working in collaborative settings. A lot of times in marketing, you're going to hear that you're a cog, somewhere in the middle, that reports to finance. It reports to sales. You're kind of the middle person taking all their needs and going and getting about there. For technical skills, social media platforms you've used, web analytics, CRM systems, you've done market research. So that might be one flavor of resume. But let's look at finance and investing. This is completely different concepts. This is more problem solving. If you're going for investing, these are competitive. Your expectations are going to be very, very high. So people who've done level 10 Royal Conservatory piano, that's a great thing to market. I have done something basically to the top level of capacity that you can get to. Varsity athletes, there's so much we can talk about that's competitive. And then hard skills, forecasting, budgeting, using Excel. So I hope that now we've talked about branding, I would say sufficiently. We can see that writing resumes you might be able to get away with one base for an industry, but the moment you start going to a different job type and you're not changing your content, you will be missing the mark with your branding. You are not going to talk about the things the employer wants to hear about. Alright, so what we're going to do is a little activity on Metameter, I hope. Because this will be really interesting to do without your phone. So if you want to get your phone out, I'm going to talk about how you do that. What I want us to do is we're going to talk about how you do that. So let's talk about how you do that. So let's talk about how you do that. So let's talk about how you do that. What I want us to do is on the first step of the exercise you're just going to say what type of job are you interested in? Just a job title. The next line, I'm going to get you to put some skills. What do you think are some key skills for that type of work? The next one, I want you to pick an experience that you have. Something you've done in the past, anything. That you think is going to relate to those skills. And then the last part is the important one. You're going to write a quick one line story about how did you gain that skill in that experience? So there's your QR code. Here give me a big thumbs up because I'm optimistic. But I'm going to open that up and activate. There's also, sorry, I went too fast on the code. You can join at Menki.com and there's a code there. Yay! Alright, so we've got someone on the counter. The more results we get in here the larger some of the words you're going to get. We'll see if there's like popularity of some roles that are more popular than others. So let's see. So let's see. So let's see. I'm counting that. That was pretty funny. Okay, I'm going to give you about 10 more seconds. That's software, good. That's it. Insurance, good. Good. Alright, so that's looking pretty good. We've got a pretty good range, which is always nice to see. Not everyone in your room is going to be competing directly with you, which is always good to know. Okay. When you think about that job, what skill does that require from you? What is the key skill that you need to be able to do to do the job that you just listed? So we might have some soft skills, we might have some hard skills. Modeling that light, yep. I feel like that might be aligning with our investing code. Our private equity books, yeah. Communications, good. We have programming, Java, and Coda, yep. Is it letting you submit multiple? That's good. If you've got multiple, go for it. Alright. So one thing I want to point out here, really I was expecting communication and problem solving might be popular. They are go-tos. Important to remember, if a lot of people are going to talk about problem solving and communication, think about the onus that is now on you to make sure that your example stands out. We're not going to take one of those relatively normal soft skills and give a relatively normal example. We want to try to stand out there if we can. Alright, looking really good. What's a past experience where you've done those skills? So the ones that you just mentioned? What have you done in your past? Whether it's something academic related, extracurricular related, work experience related, where have you done that? Good, I like how specific we're getting too. RC sports and pitches, yep. So, what's the next thing you want to do? Yeah, some personal projects. Yeah, from internships and co-ops maybe in high school, good. Camp counselors, yes. We can get so deep into what camp counselors do and how that prepares you for workplaces. I love that. Okay. So on the last slide, what we're going to do is we're going to take that past experience, we're going to take the skill that you associated with it, and I want you to explain how did you in that experience show that skill? This is probably going to be a full sentence. But describe it for me. So I need to use data analysis because I accurately enter data, analyze revenue projections, and use conditional formatting in Excel. And maybe that was for a case or a pitch competition. Like we have a lot of slots, that's perfect. So how would you relate your skill and role like this? See if you can write one sentence for me. We have no way of seeing who did what, by the way. So this couldn't be more low-stake. So we're going to take that. So this couldn't be more low-stakes. Even if it's not great, that's good, we can work on it together right now. Develop the UIUX website for clients to showcase the portfolio. I love that. I had a retail job, I targeted demographics to market advertisers accordingly. That's really good. Next level would even be which demographics? How did you target them? That's fantastic. Communicate with clients about the company's product. So again, what was the product? Guiding through the pipeline, that's really nice. Who liked the school? Develop programming skills, internet of school products. Yeah, so for that one, good. I would even go deeper. So what was the course? What was the project? What was the use case? Some interesting details we can get into. Review small business financial statements. Assess their health. Areas of growth and expansion, yeah. And what was the recommendation? What was the goal? We got our first data point, right? Getting into the data, proof, context. That looks really good. Alright. I appreciate you sharing these. I'm going to wrap up this activity. But when we say personal branding, you need to brand yourself. Think back to this activity. It's this. It's what have you done before and what skills are you using on your job target. They need to go together. Alright. Whoa, how much did you get? Yeah, how is it? Higher? Higher. Oh, I see. Thanks. Alright. So we've done this activity. We've done Mentimeter. What we're going to get ready for is when we do resumes and cover letters, we're going to give you sample job descriptions. So you're going to take a real sample job. Update your resume and cover letter to target on that type of area. We're also going to provide these word clouds for you. So if you want to see what types of words are most commonly associated with job descriptions, that's what the resource is for. And keep thinking about your story in the meantime. Hopefully this helps you to see that everything here is important. It's not just your work and your volunteer. It's not just your education. There's a lot that you could be doing. Training, certifications, conferences. So for upcoming events, if you wanted to get a speaker series out of the way, there's LinkedIn sessions this week. The Advertising Project has a graphic design workshop this week. So if you're in marketing, that might be a great fit. And then there's a lot of employer events. If you are interested in CPA, know that they are changing the process of getting your designation for CPA. And they're going to be doing presentations this week to start rolling out what does that look like and get you up to date information. Okay? Peer mentors also start after reading week. So not this week, but next week. Their office, by the way, is right across the hall. So that's where you go for drop-ins. For module two, you're going to submit your intro statement, talk a little bit about your personal brand, and what you came up with for your cognitive skills, that one sentence that we just did. That's what you'll submit. If you're doing Fast Track for CPA, we're going to meet again this Thursday. So you get three modules done before reading week. If you're not doing CPA, this is it until late October. And we'll see you at module three then. So if you want to stick around, you can. Otherwise, have a great day. Thanks for coming by. We'll talk to you soon.